Title: Welcome to ApeCoin DAO
Category: General
Author: River

The DAO
ApeCoin DAO exists because decentralized governance is critical to building and managing
a globally dispersed community—and therefore critical to the success of the APE
ecosystem. ApeCoin is governed by and for the community. If you hold ApeCoin, you’re
automatically a part of the DAO and able to participate in governance by putting forward
and voting on APE Improvement Proposals (AIPs).

The Foundation
The APE Foundation serves the ApeCoin DAO to steward the growth and development of the
APE ecosystem in a fair and inclusive way. It utilizes the Ecosystem Fund, which is
controlled by a multisig wallet, to pay its expenses as directed by the ApeCoin DAO and
provides an infrastructure for ApeCoin holders to collaborate through open and
permissionless processes 54.

Discourse
Discourse is an open source discussion platform and the first stop for all AIPs. Here,
members of the community can discuss matters of relevance to the ecosystem and provide
feedback on AIPs. This informal dialectic helps AIP authors to strengthen their proposals
and promotes AIPs that are informed by values and goals of the community.

Proposal Process
Discourse is used for idea generation, community discussion, and the preparation of the
AIP Draft. A brief description of the process is below. See the Proposal Process 66 on
the ApeCoin website for further details.

All Topics submitted in Discourse must be approved by a moderator. If it is rejected,
you will be contacted by a moderator directly. If approved, it is open for 7 days.
When the Topic is closed, a moderator will message the author of the Topic directly in
Discourse to put together the AIP Draft.
The AIP Draft will go through the moderation, analysis, and review process.
Moderators will update the community on the status of the Topics in the comments after
the Topic is closed.
Approved AIPs will be put on Snapshot for vote.

Voting Process
All Live AIPs will be posted for vote at the ApeCoin DAO Snapshot 30. A brief summary of
the process is below. See the Voting section 19 on the ApeCoin website for further details.

New AIPs are posted every week on Thursday at 9PM ET and close the following Wednesday at
9PM ET.
ApeCoin DAO members may delegate their votes to another ApeCoin DAO member. Delegation
must occur prior to the posting of the AIP on Snapshot.

How to Start?
Read AIP Drafts 30 or Ideas 13 from other DAO members and engage by replying with a
comment or submit your own
Review AIPs currently up for a vote at Live AIPs 13
Review previously passed or rejected AIPs at Final AIPs 5
Learn about structuring your AIP by viewing templates available at Help & Resources 14
Stay in touch with the community by learning more about General 5 topics currently under
discussion as well as live Events 10 related to ApeCoin
Learn from the community by: reviewing frequently asked questions 14 in the ApeCoin
community, reading through best practices for staying safe online 4, and getting help 4
from the community
Guidelines for Engagement on Discourse

This is a Civilized Place for Public Discussion
Please treat this discussion forum with the same respect you would a public park. We,
too, are a shared community resource — a place to share skills, knowledge and interests
through ongoing conversation. These are not hard and fast rules. They are guidelines to
aid the human judgment of our community and keep this a kind, friendly place for
civilized public discourse.

Improve the Discussion
Help us make this a great place for discussion by always adding something positive to the
discussion, however small. If you are not sure your post adds to the conversation, think
over what you want to say and try again later.
One way to improve the discussion is by discovering ones that are already happening.
Spend time browsing the topics here before replying or starting your own, and you’ll have
a better chance of meeting others who share your interests.
The topics discussed here matter to us, and we want you to act as if they matter to you,
too. Be respectful of the topics and the people discussing them, even if you disagree
with some of what is being said.

Be Agreeable, Even When You Disagree
You may wish to respond by disagreeing. That’s fine. But remember to criticize ideas,
not people. Please avoid:
Name-calling
Ad hominem attacks
Responding to a post’s tone instead of its actual content
Knee-jerk contradiction
Instead, provide thoughtful insights that improve the conversation.
Your Participation Counts

The conversations we have here set the tone for every new arrival. Help us influence the
future of this community by choosing to engage in discussions that make this forum an
interesting place to be — and avoiding those that do not.
Discourse provides tools that enable the community to collectively identify the best
(and worst) contributions: bookmarks, likes, flags, replies, edits, watching, muting and
so forth. Use these tools to improve your own experience, and everyone else’s, too.
Let’s leave our community better than we found it.

If You See a Problem, Flag It
Moderators have special authority; they are responsible for this forum. But so are you.
With your help, moderators can be community facilitators, not just janitors or police.
When you see bad behavior, don’t reply. Replying encourages bad behavior by acknowledging
it, consumes your energy, and wastes everyone’s time. Just flag it. If enough flags
accrue, action will be taken, either automatically or by moderator intervention.
In order to maintain our community, moderators reserve the right to remove any content
and any user account for any reason at any time. Moderators do not preview new posts;
the moderators and site operators take no responsibility for any content posted by the
community.

Always Be Civil
Nothing sabotages a healthy conversation like rudeness:
Be civil. Don’t post anything that a reasonable person would consider offensive, abusive,
or hate speech.
Keep it clean. Don’t post anything obscene or sexually explicit.
Respect each other. Don’t harass or grief anyone, impersonate people, or expose their
private information.
Respect our forum. Don’t post spam or otherwise vandalize the forum.
These are not concrete terms with precise definitions — avoid even the appearance of any
of these things. If you’re unsure, ask yourself how you would feel if your post was
featured on the front page of a major news site.
This is a public forum, and search engines index these discussions. Keep the language,
links, and images safe for family and friends.

Keep It Tidy
Make the effort to put things in the right place, so that we can spend more time
discussing and less cleaning up. So:
Don’t start a topic in the wrong category; please read the category definitions.
Don’t cross-post the same thing in multiple topics.
Don’t post no-content replies.
Don’t divert a topic by changing it midstream.
Don’t sign your posts — every post has your profile information attached to it.
Rather than posting “+1” or “Agreed”, use the Like button. Rather than taking an
existing topic in a radically different direction, use Reply as a Linked Topic.

Post Only Your Own Stuff
You may not post anything digital that belongs to someone else without permission.
You may not post descriptions of, links to, or methods for stealing someone’s
intellectual property (software, video, audio, images), or for breaking any other law.
Powered by You

This site is operated by your friendly local staff and you, the community. If you have
any further questions about how things should work here, open a new topic in the site
feedback category and let’s discuss! If there’s a critical or urgent issue that can’t
be handled by a meta topic or flag, contact us via the staff page.

The APE Foundation website is the DAO hub, providing an interface to educate DAO members
on the governance process and provide easy access to the channels below in order to
streamline the DAO’s operation and enhance its utility.

Discourse is the first stop for all proposals. An AIP (Ape Improvement Proposal) Idea is
submitted as a post in Discourse and must receive confirmation from a moderator that it
complies with DAO-approved guidelines before it appears to the community. ApeCoin holders
must go through a wallet authentication process to post ideas or give feedback to ideas
via comments. Snapshot is used for voting. Proposal drafts that have passed their
respective approval processes become available for voting on Snapshot. ApeCoin holders
must go through a wallet authentication process to vote.

APECOIN IS FOR THE WEB3 ECONOMY.
Culture has found new expression in web3 through art, gaming, entertainment, and events.
The possibilities for blockchain’s impact on culture are so endless that they can’t
possibly all be predicted yet. APE is a token made to support what’s next, controlled and
built on by the community. It will serve as a decentralized protocol layer for
community-led initiatives that drive culture forward into the metaverse.

THE APE FOUNDATION
The APE Foundation is the steward of ApeCoin. It is not an overseer, but the base layer
on which ApeCoin holders in the ApeCoin DAO can build.

The Foundation facilitates decentralized and community-led governance and is designed to
become more decentralized over time. It is tasked with administering the decisions of the
ApeCoin DAO, and is responsible for day-to-day administration, bookkeeping, project
management, and other tasks that ensure the DAO community’s ideas have the support they
need to become a reality.

The goal of the APE Foundation is to steward the growth and development of the APE
ecosystem in a fair and inclusive way. It utilizes the Ecosystem Fund, which is
controlled by a multisig wallet, to pay its expenses as directed by the ApeCoin DAO and
provides an infrastructure for ApeCoin holders to collaborate through open and
permissionless governance processes.

THE DAO
ApeCoin DAO exists because decentralized governance is critical to building and managing
a globally dispersed community—and therefore critical to the success of the APE ecosystem.

The APE Improvement Proposal Process (see Governance) will allow ApeCoin DAO members to
make decisions regarding Ecosystem Fund allocations, governance rules, projects,
partnerships, and beyond. ApeCoin DAO membership is open to all ApeCoin holders.

THE BOARD
The Special Council of the APE Foundation provides, at the behest of the ApeCoin DAO
members, stewardship and oversight of the APE Foundation. The Special Council members
exist to serve the vision of ApeCoin DAO.

It does this by the following, though they are not limited to the items listed below:

Conducting detailed administrative reviews of AIPs according to the process outlined in
AIP-1
Ensuring the implementation of the ApeCoin DAO’s intentions and wishes as manifested
through approved AIPs

Safeguarding and stewarding the ApeCoin DAO treasury
Serving as primary community liaisons with the APE Foundation and its service providers
in Cayman Islands, facilitating open and effective communication channels

Overseeing the Ape Foundation administrators and other foundation service providers,
ensuring they execute their duties with efficiency and timeliness, aligned with the
ApeCoin DAO's objectives and values.


AIP-1: Proposing the DAO
Category: Process
Submitted by: Cartan Group LLC

ABSTRACT
This document proposes the structure of a decentralized autonomous organization (DAO)
that would be governed by the holders of ApeCoin, a decentralized token that the
community hopes will serve as the primary token for art, gaming, entertainment, and
events in web3.

MOTIVATION
APE Foundation, which will serve the ApeCoin DAO community and be governed by it, aims
to be the heart of art, gaming, entertainment, and events on the blockchain.

The ApeCoin DAO community will have the power to submit proposals, vote on the most
exciting and promising ideas, and make them real.

The guiding values of APE Foundation are:

Boldness: We don’t shy away from the weird, the hard, or the new.
Equality: One APE equals one APE.
Transparency: Processes and decisions are shared openly with the community.
Collective Responsibility: We leave everything better than we found it.
Persistence: Success is an ouroboros, not a straight line.

RATIONALE
APE Foundation serves the ApeCoin DAO in fostering a community of creators and everyday
innovators with aligning motivation and values to shape the future of web3.

The short-term vision is to facilitate the launch of the best product feasible today in
a way that aligns with the DAO’s motivation and values by balancing productivity and
governance with bottom-up contribution, while minimizing politics.

To achieve this, it is imperative that participating in idea submission, commentary,
proposal submission, and voting is restricted to ApeCoin DAO members. Holding ApeCoin is
the only requirement for membership in the DAO.

In keeping with the core APE Foundation value of transparency, all ideas and commentary
in Discourse, proposals, votes cast, and voting outcomes will be publically available
to view.

GUIDELINES

Every year, there is a DAO-wide vote to determine which DAO members will serve on a
special council on the APE Foundation (the DAO’s “Board”). The purpose of the Board is
to administer DAO proposals and serve the vision of the community.

A Board member may be removed and replaced prior to the term pursuant to a majority vote
of token holders.
The total cost of implementation must be clear in order for a proposal to go to vote.

DAO members must search past proposals to ensure any idea they intend to write a proposal
for has not already been submitted.
If a suggested proposal directly conflicts with a proposal that is currently up for vote,
the second proposal should not go for a vote until a decision is made on the first proposal
to avoid approval of opposing requirements.
A suggested proposal that directly conflicts with another approved proposal cannot go to
vote for three months after the original proposal has been implemented to avoid wasting
community assets.

Proposals will not be considered/put up for a vote if they involve illegal activity, hate
speech, pornographic material, or are at odds with the mission or values of the APE Foundation.

KEY TERMS
AIP (APE Improvement Proposal) - a document proposing a new feature, project, activity, goal,
piece of information, or change to any proposal that has already been implemented.

AIP Idea - the first step in the process of creating an official AIP, which will be
presented to the community for gathering informal feedback for a period of seven days.

AIP Draft - the second step in the process of creating an official AIP, which can only be
submitted after the original AIP idea has gathered feedback from the community for seven
days in the proper channel. An AIP draft must be submitted directly to a moderator via
predetermined AIP templates.

AIP Template - the preset format for an AIP draft, which will vary slightly depending on
the nature of the intended AIP.

AIP Author - the DAO member responsible for beginning the APE Improvement Process,
starting with presenting the idea to the community via the proper AIP idea process.

The AIP author is responsible for incorporating relevant feedback, submitting the
subsequent AIP draft via the proper AIP template to the moderator, and responding to 
questions or requests for clarifications from DAO members and moderators. Any ApeCoin
holder can be an AIP author.

AIP Categories - the predetermined classification system for organizing AIPs by their
nature or intent. They are: Core Proposal, Ecosystem Fund Allocation Proposal
(a subcategory of Core Proposal), Brand Decision Proposal
(a subcategory of Core Proposal), Process Proposal, and Informational Proposal.

Core Proposal - a proposal that would be considered the main activities of the DAO, with
subcategories that can be expanded on over time via proposal submission.

Ecosystem Fund Allocation Proposal - a proposal about how the Ecosystem Fund should be
spent. A subcategory of Core Proposals.

Brand Decision Proposal - a proposal about to whom the community wants to attach its
name. This is different from an Ecosystem Fund Allocation Proposal in that it can have
associated costs to implement but is not at its core a proposal about Ecosystem Fund
Allocation. A subcategory of Core Proposals.

Process Proposal - a proposal about making a change to a process or proposing an
implementation. Examples include procedures, guidelines, changes to the decision-making
process, and changes to the tools or environment of the DAO or Foundation.

Informational Proposal - a proposal that provides general guidelines or information to
the community but does not propose a new feature.

Resubmission Proposal - a proposal that was previously submitted but did not pass either
due to initial rejection by moderators or the Board, or by not passing a vote. All
proposal categories have a special template for resubmission that the author must link
to the original proposal, clearly state why it did not pass, and clearly explain how
the resubmission is different.

AIP Analysis Report - a report conducted by a project management team engaged by the
APE Foundation to ensure that all costs, steps to implement, legal considerations,
third-party review requirements, potential conflicts of interests, and any further
implications have been properly considered and identified. This is considered to be a
service for the community given that AIP authors will be submitting drafts with little
to no resources.

APE Improvement Proposal Draft & Analysis Report (AIP DAR Package) - both the AIP Draft
(submitted by the author) and the AIP Analysis Report (submitted by the project
management team engaged by the APE Foundation) should be defined as a package after the
analysis report is conducted, as they should only be considered together from that point on.

AIP Moderation - the act of reviewing an AIP DAR Package to determine whether or not the
AIP draft meets the predetermined and DAO-approved guidelines and therefore is eligible
to move to the next step in the process. If an AIP DAR Package passes AIP moderation,
it becomes a Pending AIP.

Pending AIP - the AIP status after AIP DAR, which is only reached if it passes AIP Moderation.
Post-Moderation Tagging - the process of tagging all Pending AIPs that have successfully
been through the AIP analysis report and AIP moderation phases. There are two tags given
at this stage: 1) “Straight to Vote,” which is for any pending AIP where costs, content,
and implications are considered to be straightforward and of no risk to the well-being
of the DAO. 2) “Needs Administrative Review,” which is for any pending AIP with costs,
content, or implications that are considered to be complicated or a potential risk to the
well-being of the DAO and therefore must be reviewed by the Board of the DAO.

Administrative Review - the process of evaluating pending AIPs that have been tagged as
“Needs Administrative Review” to determine whether they should be halted or sent to vote
by the community.

Return for Clarification - a type of administrative classification that requires the AIP
author to clarify certain information regarding the Pending AIP. This classification would
be given in cases such as cost to implement being unclear, proposing to utilize a larger
percentage of the Ecosystem Fund than is justified based on the value it would provide to
the community, or being in direct conflict with an active AIP.

Return for Reconstruction - a type of administrative classification that requires the
proposer to restart the proposal submission process because the Pending AIP violates
DAO-approved requirements, or in cases of violation of the law, reasonable suspicion
of fraud or other misleading information, or the pending AIP being at odds with the
mission, values, or well-being of the Foundation or DAO.

Weekly AIP Release - every Thursday at 9PM ET, when all AIPs that are ready to go live
are released together in a batch.

Weekly Voting Close - when all AIPs in a Weekly AIP Release batch close for voting,
which happens the following Wednesday at 9PM ET.

Live AIP - an AIP that has passed all required approval stages and is launched for the
community to vote on it. The voting options for a Live AIP are “In favor” and “Against.”
Voting “In favor” means the voter is in favor of implementing the AIP exactly as-is.

Voting “Against” means the vote is against implementing the AIP exactly as-is — you may
vote “Against” to encourage the author to resubmit the AIP after making changes.

Final AIP - an AIP that has completed the voting process. There are two subcategories here: Accepted and Rejected.

Implementation of Accepted AIP - the process of implementing an AIP that has been
accepted by the community via a vote, based on the predetermined steps laid out in the
Draft/Template and Analysis Report phases.

THE PROCESS
Phase 1: AIP Idea

An AIP Idea is submitted as a post in Discourse and must receive confirmation from a
moderator that it complies with DAO-approved guidelines before it appears to the community.
The person or people submitting the AIP Idea will be referred to as the author or authors.

Multiple members can work together on an AIP idea, but it should be submitted only once.
The AIP idea informally gathers comments via Discourse.
Seven days after being posted in the Discourse, the community feedback process for the AIP Idea will close.

Phase 2: AIP Draft

Once the seven-day feedback window has passed and a moderator has closed the Discourse topic, a
moderator will provide the AIP author with the appropriate template.
A proposal typically includes:
Abstract - Two or three sentences that summarize the proposal.

Motivation - A statement on why the APE Community should implement the proposal.

Rationale - An explanation of how the proposal aligns with the APE Community’s
mission and guiding values.

Key Terms (optional) - Definitions of any terms within the proposal that are unique to
the proposal, new to the APE Community, and/or industry-specific.

Specifications - A detailed breakdown of the platforms and technologies that will be used.

Steps to Implement - The steps to implement the proposal, including associated costs,
manpower, and other resources for each step where applicable.

Timeline - Relevant timing details, including but not limited to start date, milestones,
and completion dates.

Overall Cost - The total cost to implement the proposal.
The author will fill out the template based on the original AIP Idea, incorporating any
feedback provided by the community that helps the idea better serve the DAO.

The author can add additional fields to the template if necessary to fully communicate
the intentions, specifics, and implications of the AIP Draft.
Proposals that did not make it through the respective approval process and are being
resubmitted should also include:

Link to original proposal
Reason it was not approved
Changes that have been made and why it should now be approved
Category options:
Core: Ecosystem Fund Allocation
Core: Ecosystem Fund Allocation (Resubmission)
Core: Brand Decision
Core: Brand Decision (Resubmission)

Process
Process (Resubmission)
Informational
Informational (Resubmission)
The moderator may then continue communication with the author to inform them of any
incorrect or missing information that needs to be changed—or clarifications that need to
be made—in order for the AIP Draft to comply with the DAO-approved guidelines and move
to the next step.
If the author does not respond to a moderator’s request to change, update, or make
clarifications on the AIP Draft within 30 days, the AIP Draft will be automatically
rejected as having failed to comply with the DAO-approved guidelines.
When the moderator confirms that an AIP Draft complies with the DAO-approved guidelines,
they assign a number to the AIP for identification purposes throughout the rest of the
process. From this point on, the AIP is referred to as “AIP-#: (Name) - (Category)”.
For example, this AIP is “AIP-1: Proposing the DAO - Process”.

Phase 3: AIP Analysis Report

The AIP Draft is then reviewed by a project management team engaged by APE Foundation,
who will provide an in-depth AIP Analysis Report.
The purpose of the AIP Analysis Report is to ensure that all costs, steps to implement,

legal considerations, third-party review requirements, potential conflicts of interests,
and any further implications have been properly considered and identified in order to
ensure the DAO members have enough information to make an informed decision.

This is considered to be a service for the DAO community given that AIP authors may be
submitting drafts with little to no resources.

Phase 4: AIP Moderation

The AIP DAR Package is reviewed by a team of moderators.
The AIP DAR Package will either be approved or not approved based on whether it adheres
to the DAO-approved guidelines.
If an AIP DAR Package is approved as complying with DAO-approved guidelines, it becomes
a Pending AIP and moves to Phase 5.
If an AIP DAR Package fails to comply with DAO-approved guidelines, it is eligible for
resubmission unless in cases of violation of the law or reasonable suspicion of fraud or
other misleading information.

Phase 5: Post-Moderation Tagging

Pending AIPs that have passed AIP Moderation will then either be tagged as “Straight to
Vote” or “Needs Administrative Review”’ as each term is defined and described in this Proposal.
The “Straight to Vote” tag is given for any pending AIP whose costs, content, and implications
are considered to be straightforward and of no risk to the well-being of the DAO. Any
Pending AIP that is tagged as “Straight to Vote” will skip to Phase 7.
The “Needs Administrative Review” tag is given for any pending AIP whose costs, content,
or implications are considered to be complicated or a potential risk to the well-being
of the DAO. Any Pending AIP that is tagged as “Needs Administrative Review” must go
through Phase 6.

Phase 6: Administrative Review

This phase is only for Pending AIPs that have been tagged with “Needs Administrative Review.”
When this happens, the Board, serving in an administrative capacity, will determine
whether further action is required prior to a Pending AIP proceeding to Phase 7.

Pending AIPs that the Board determines do not require additional action will be tagged
as “Approved for Voting” and proceed to Phase 7.
If the Board decides to return a Pending AIP for further clarification or action, they
must provide a clear explanation of why and tag it as either “Return for Reconstruction”
or “Return for Clarification.”
Reasons to tag as “Return for Reconstruction” or “Return for Clarification” may include
but are not limited to:

Cost to implement unclear/not able to be calculated (tagged as “Return for Clarification”)
Proposes to use more than 5% of the Ecosystem Fund (tagged as “Return for Clarification”)
Conflicts with another proposal (tagged as “Return for Clarification”)

Proposal is at odds with the mission/values of the DAO (tagged as “Return for Reconstruction”)
Proposal is at odds with the well-being of the DAO (tagged as “Return for Reconstruction”)
Violations of law, or against advice of counsel for APE Foundation (tagged as “Return for Reconstruction”)

Reasonable suspicion of fraud or other misleading information (tagged as “Return for Reconstruction”)

Phase 7: Live AIP

Drafts that have passed their respective approval processes will become a Live AIP on
Snapshot during the next Weekly AIP Release, which is when new AIPs are released in
batches every Thursday at 9PM ET.

Moderators are the only ones that can post AIPs to Snapshot because they must ensure
that each one has gone through the correct approvals process.
Once live on Snapshot, Live AIPs are open to voting until Weekly Voting Close, which
is when all Live AIPs from a given batch close for voting at 9PM ET on the Wednesday
following their release.
The voting options are “In favor” and “Against.” Voting “In favor” means the voter
is in favor of implementing the AIP exactly as-is. Voting “Against” means the vote is
against implementing the AIP exactly as-is — voters may vote “Against” to encourage
the author to resubmit the AIP after making changes.

Phase 8: Final AIP

If by the Vote Close Time the Live AIP has not gotten any votes or is tied, it will
be tagged as “Stalled” and be eligible for Resubmission.
In all other cases, after the Vote Close Time, Live AIPs are moved to Final AIPs.

There are two subcategories for the Final AIP status: accepted and rejected.
Rejected Final AIPs will have the chance to be resubmitted via the appropriate
Resubmission Template if the author contacts a moderator to initiate this process.

Accepted Final AIPs will move into implementation.

Phase 9: Implementation

For Accepted Final AIPs, implementation will begin based on the steps outlined in the AIP
template.
The project management team engaged by the APE Foundation is responsible for making sure
this happens but not responsible for doing it themselves.

The AIP implementation is administered by the Ape Foundation. Implementation may be
immaterially or materially altered to optimize for security, usability, to protect APE
holders, and otherwise to effect the intent of the AIP. Any material deviations from an
AIP, as initially approved, will be disclosed to the APE holder community.

SPECIFICATIONS
DAO Hub: APE Foundation website, which will provide an interface to educate DAO members
on the governance process and provide easy access to the channels described below in
order to streamline the DAO’s operation and enhance its utility.

Communication Channel: Discourse (Phase 1)
ApeCoin holders must go through a wallet authentication process to post ideas or give
feedback to ideas via comments.
AIP Idea posts must be approved by a moderator to ensure it meets all predetermined
guidelines and template requirements.

All posts and comments will be regularly monitored by both a team of community managers
engaged by the APE Foundation and by the DAO community members themselves. There will be
zero tolerance for hate speech anywhere on this platform.

The author of an idea via a post in Discourse cannot edit the original post. If the
author wants to propose changes to the original idea, the author must do this via the
comments.

Seven (7) days after it has been posted, ideas become closed to community feedback
and will be locked by a moderator or community manager.
Process for Draft Submission via Template: (Phase 2)

Once an idea is locked in Discourse after the seven-day community feedback period,
a moderator will contact the author to provide the appropriate template.
The author should then submit an official AIP draft to the moderator using the
template.

The moderator may then continue communication with the author to inform them of any
incorrect or missing information that needs to be changed—or clarifications that
need to be made— for the AIP Draft to move to the next step.

If the author does not respond to a moderator’s request to change, update, or make
clarifications on the AIP Draft within 30 days, the AIP Draft will be automatically rejected.
Platform where Live AIPs are Hosted: Snapshot (Phase 7)

ApeCoin holders must go through a wallet authentication process to vote on Snapshot.
Moderators are the only ones allowed to launch AIPs on Snapshot as they must ensure each
AIP has gone through the correct approval process.

See AIP-2 for further details.

STEPS TO IMPLEMENT
Completed setup of Discourse and settings
Assigned administrators of Discourse
Assigned reviewers to prepare reports for implications of proposals
Assigned moderators to review proposals
Assigned special council

Set up Snapshot space
Created custom custom token-gating solution for Discourse
Added Wallet Connect support to the token-gating solution for Discourse

TIMELINE
Solution prepared and ready to be ratified

OVERALL COST
Initial APE Foundation and ApeCoin DAO setup costs
Setup Costs including domain purchases and fees, legal fees, DAO administration setup,
Discourse Enterprise and setup, and misc out of pocket costs.
$2 million

Monthly recurring costs (first 6 months)

Administration Fees (Cartan Group LLC)

To provide operational support and project management support for the Foundation
To act as the team of moderators, administrators, and lead in Discourse
To act as the team of reviewers to prepare reports and any other supporting documentation
necessary

$150K USD per month, company contracted for a 6-month term
Discourse Enterprise Account

Discussion platform to host all topics discussed by the community before formalizing
into proposals. Enterprise account allows for plug-ins, which allowed us to build a
custom token-gating solution that verifies that a Discourse user is an ApeCoin holder.

$1,500 per month, on month to month basis
APE Foundation Board Compensation

Compensation is entirely in the form of ApeCoin to align incentives of Board Members
with DAO Members.
Each Board member receives $125K in ApeCoin for their 6-month term, subject to equal
monthly vesting over the course of their term (~$20,833.00 of ApeCoin/month for 6 months).


AIP-2: Voting Process
Category: Process
Author: Cartan Group LLC

ABSTRACT
This document proposes the voting protocol for the DAO outlined in AIP-1.

MOTIVATION
The main motivation behind this proposal is to create the voting infrastructure for
ApeCoin holders to participate in the decision-making of the DAO, the governing body of
the Foundation. The core criteria for the proposed voting system are:

not requiring gas payment
ensuring transparency
expanding governance participation to all holders of ApeCoin
One of the goals of launching a token was to facilitate decentralized community
governance in the form of the ApeCoin DAO. Without a voting system in place, arriving at
consensus on proposals would be centralized, with only a few people holding
decision-making abilities. This proposal aims to avoid this result.

RATIONALE
As the ecosystem evolves and expands, a well-defined system is required to gather new
community ideas and provide a clear path for these ideas to be approved for
implementation. A proposal process is foundational to this system becoming a reality.

A proposal process, however, needs an accompanying consensus mechanism. It must be fair,
transparent, and low-cost to place votes. Balancing each of these requirements is
challenging. On-chain solutions make it costly to vote. Off-chain solutions, like the one
proposed, are less expensive, but require actions to take place off chain.

This proposal outlines a voting protocol that seeks to balance the pros and cons of 
voting approaches, and to hold up the core APE Foundation guiding values of equality and
transparency. This voting protocol can be found below in the following SPECIFICATIONS
section.

SPECIFICATIONS
Assuming the approval of AIP-1, implement Snapshot as the voting mechanism / protocol
where:

Only ApeCoin token holders may vote
Token holders will have the ability to delegate votes
New proposals that meet the required guidelines will be launched in batches every
Thursday at 9PM ET
The voting opens immediately upon launch
The voting options for a Live AIP are “In favor” and “Against.” Voting “In favor” means
the voter is in favor of implementing the AIP exactly as-is. Voting “Against” means th
 vote is against implementing the AIP exactly as-is — one may vote “Against” to encourage
 the author to resubmit the AIP after making changes.
The voting for each proposal in each weekly batch will be open for voting for six days,
closing at 9PM ET on the following Wednesday
Proposals that are approved by the holders of the requisite number of ApeCoin are moved
to the APE Foundation for implementation
Only moderators can post AIPs to Snapshot because they must ensure that each one has
gone through the correct approvals process

STEPS TO IMPLEMENT
Purchased ENS domain
Created specific space on Snapshot
Implemented ecosystem-specific voting strategy
Set administrator addresses
Set voting rules
Set restrictions in Snapshot so that only moderators can launch proposals
Opened ratification of AIP-1 and AIP-2
TIMELINE
Solution prepared and ready to be ratified

OVERALL COST
No cost to implement


AIP-9: Boring Security - Ecosystem Fund Allocation
Category: Ecosystem Fund Allocation
Author: Feld

ABSTRACT
This document outlines the Boring Security Mission statement and alignment with the
greater BAYC and NFT community. In order to grow the pie, we must first secure the
crust, and protect the gooey insides from malicious actors.

MOTIVATION
The Boring Security DAO has tracked over $50mm worth of hacked/scammed NFTs in the
space and has attributed it largely to lack of awareness and education on the NFT
communities’ part. There have been no large-scale vendor neutral efforts in the space
to educate, inform, and provide timely updates such that the community can make better
informed risk decisions with their capital and NFTs. This changes now.

RATIONALE
With BAYC holders being the largest target for hackers/scammers, the DAO will face
unique challenges over the coming months and years as it pertains to Security.
Bringing a whole slew of new users into DeFi primitives, they will face even more
challenges in ensuring the safety of their coins, NFTs, and digital assets more broadly.
As the ecosystem evolves and web3 integrations become more prevalent, getting a BAYC
holder to sign a potentially malicious transaction will be the holy grail of exploits,
and one that should concern this DAO greatly.

SPECIFICATIONS
Dune Analytics to help determine trends, track user behavior, and guide decisions of
resource allocation.
Social Media to conduct outreach, education, and
Smart Contract Review Tools - We hope to make partnerships with established auditing
companies in the space to give us the ability to do preliminary safety checks on minting
contracts, airdropped tokens, etc.

STEPS TO IMPLEMENT
After Funding is secured we plan to:

Setup Coordinape and fund it with a portion of our Apecoin each month. DAO participants
will be paid out every month, based on their effort into the DAO and the perceived value
of other contributors in the contributor bucket.
Hire (1) staff member out of a legal entity already created to facilitate this effort.
This staff member will be doing outreach, tracking attendance to courses, website content
updates, issuing our BS101 NFTs, coordinating volunteer activities, Coordinape payout
handling, and most importantly tracking our metrics and helping the group work towards
them, and potentially more depending on their skill set or desire.
Partnerships, Website design, Giveaways, Social Media blitzes, etc.
We believe with the ($80,000 worth of apecoin) we will be able to have a 6 month runway
of associated costs. Beer money for volunteers, a full-time staff member, and our
software needs. However, being able to up the volunteer budget or being able to pay
people for valuable contributions outside of coordinape to help us push our milestones
further, faster, is the goal. This is why we are requesting funding from multiple sources.

TIMELINE
2022 OKRs Summary:
Achieve a meaningful number members to join the Boring Security community
Funding to support Boring Security objectives long-term

Milestones

Security Educational Courses w/ POAP
Become the largest security communities in the NFT space.
Active monitoring, reviews, and tooling for the space.
Roadmap and Milestones

Phase 1
Summary: During phase 1 the team will be designing and developing Educational Courses
geared toward changing risky behavior in the NFT Space, eg. Blind Signing, risky
approvals, etc. The team will also accumulate and collect the necessary wallet, event,
asset, approval data to analyze and ruthlessly prioritize our roadmap.
Milestones: Courseware, POAPs, and establish DAO structure.

Create NFT security Educational courseware targeting High Risk individuals based on
behavioral analysis.
Promote courseware via social awareness and engagement with key NFT communities.
Incentivize courseware through POAP and collaborations with NFT projects (giveaways,
whitelist)
Establish the optimal team and organizational structure to achieve the goals of a
long-lasting public utility

Phase 2
Summary: In order to be successful in a Security project it is essential to make data
driven decisions that enable us to understand the likelihood and severity of attacks.
Milestones: Curate Content, Go public, Smart Contract Review, More volunteers

Response team deployment
Paced Launch of the project (Open Socials, Discord, Advertising Material)
Metrics developed to track % of ‘key projects’ that recommend newcomers to utilize
Boring Security

Phase 3
Summary: Operational Success - Growth
Milestones: Partnerships, Growth, Tools, Trust

Full-time active monitoring of the space, threats, and scams
Develop scope beyond courseware. Establish mechanisms for proactive and reactive
airdrop/smart contract reviews for user safety.
Develop tools, dashboards, technical primitives to protect the community
Partnerships with large projects, potential companies or other DAOs to help spread
awareness and bring NFTs safely to the masses.

OVERALL COST
The initial ask from the DAO is 6969 $ape coin, but Boring Security has some plans to
generate additional supporter funding through Supporter NFT issuance, other grant
applications (Opensea grant is pending) and others. However, there will likely be ongoing
requests for funding that we will likely come back to the DAO for additional funding,
and provide updates of our progress, etc.


Proposal Name: Bored Ape Gazette: Ape Coin Media/ BAYC News
Proposal Category: Ecosystem Fund Allocation

ABSTRACT
The Bored Ape Gazette has grown exponentially over the past year and we have covered
everything in the Bored Ape ecosystem since June 1,2021. I am committed to building a
trusted source of information for this community and I would like to expand the operations
into continuous research, analysis and reporting across the ecosystem. After speaking
with Brandon Caruana, I believe the best way for the Bored Ape Gazette to grow is via a
grant from the ApeCoin DAO.

We fully believe in the power and support of this community and would like to work for it
full time. We have a plan to turn the Bored Ape Gazette into a sustainable business model
over the course of one year and I am requesting a grant from the community to help me
accomplish this goal.

Motivation
The goal of the Bored Ape Gazette is to keep $Ape holders, BAYC members and the general
public informed on all things Ape! I have met some amazing people over the last year and
feel honored to be able to provide this community with a trusted source of information.

Rationale
The Bored Ape Gazette was founded on June 1, 2021 and has covered the BAYC and its
members every day since.

As the community has expanded from a 10,000 profile photo collection into a global brand
and DAO, the need for a trusted community news source has never been more important.

The Bored Ape Gazette has worked hard to become this trusted source of information and
can see a path to expand our presence and content. We will continue to support this
community faithfully.

Specifications
Over the next year, we believe that the Bored Ape Gazette will become the go to news
source for every member of this community. With the support of the DAO, the Bored Ape
Gazette website will become a 24-hour style news site complete with a live BAYC, MAYC,
BAKC and Otherdeed sales ticker, an $Ape price chart complete with a tradeview, a
calendar showing important dates such as DAO votes and other community related
events, a classifieds section where community members can list their BAYC/ Yuga related
art and services, among other resources that will keep the community and the world
informed on all things ape!

Along with an updated website, the Bored Ape Gazette will also work to keep the
community better informed on the ApeCoin DAO with bi- weekly newsletters and in depth
reports on Ape Improvement Proposals complete with Q&A interviews with the AIP Authors
and interviews with holders who are for and against the proposals.

Steps to Implement
To begin, I’d love to get DAO members help in revamping the Gazette and making it more
user friendly by adding community resources to the site.

Some of the resources I would like to add to the site are:
1.A live ticker showing sales from the BAYC, MAYC, BAKC and Otherdeed collections,
2.An Ape coin price chart
3.An Ape coin DAO tracker showing members what AIPs are on the ballot this week at the DAO.
4.An Ape Calendar showing upcoming community events, meetups and DAO votes
5. A classifieds section where members can sell their BAYC/ Yuga art and services in $Ape

Along with those improvements to the website, with the help of the DAO I will make
running the community newspaper my full time job and deliver more daily coverage.

For $7000 per month, I will ramp up my coverage of all things Ape with a focus on the
Apecoin DAO and I will create a bi-weekly newsletter for the community immediately.

Further, I will also edit contributing writers’ stories and lead weekly Bored Ape Gazette
writers meetings where all community members are welcome and everyone can pitch ideas and
get involved in the paper!

At this time, I would also like to extend an invite to any/all DAO members who want to
write/report to come join the Gazette! This is a community paper that should be written
by members of the $Ape community! I believe that the DAO should pay these reporters $100
dollars per published article.

In total, I expect the Gazette to cost the DAO an estimated $10,000 a month for news
coverage and an additional cost to revamp the website.

Timeline
The Bored Ape Gazette is positioned to begin implementing these steps immediately.
Once the DAO approves of this grant, coverage of all things ape will ramp up from 1-2
stories a day to 3-5. I also will host the first Bored Ape Gazette writers meeting a
week after the approval of this AIP.

On the second or fourth Tuesday of the month following the approval of this grant I will
release the first bi- weekly newsletter on the ApeCoin DAO. Going forward, these
newsletters will be released on the second and fourth Tuesday of each month. I believe
releasing these newsletters on Tuesday is critical so $Ape holders have a day to read
the news and vote before the Wednesday night deadline.

The updates to the Bored Ape Gazette website will begin immediately after the approval
of this grant. Brandon Caruana has agreed to help with this part. The website should be
transformed within a quarter.

Overall Cost

$150,000 USD for the first year.


ApeCoin DAO Handbook

This evolving guide is designed to help you navigate and understand the ApeCoin DAO.
Here’s what you can find:

1. Intro to DAO’s & The Ownership Economy
Decentralized Autonomous Organizations (DAOs), such as the ApeCoin DAO, represent a
revolutionary approach to organizational structure, powered by the transparency and
immutability of blockchain technology. DAOs operate on the principles of transparency,
inclusivity, and direct participation, providing a platform where every member has a
voice.

ApeCoin DAO is a prime example of the emerging ownership economy, where users are not
just passive consumers but active stakeholders. As holders of APE tokens, users have the
ability to influence the direction of the DAO, participating in decisions ranging from
governance policies to Ecosystem Fund Allocations. This level of involvement is a
significant departure from traditional organizational structures, fostering a sense of
community and shared purpose.

2. How DAO’s work
Blockchain technology is what allows DAOs to maintain the integrity of their governance
structures, proving the validity of consensus mechanisms on-chain. As the ApeCoin DAO
continues to decentralize and operate autonomously, smart contracts play an increasingly
important role.

These self-executing contracts with the terms of the agreement directly written into code
govern the proposal and execution processes within the DAO. They ensure that rules and
procedures are followed consistently, without the need for a central authority or
intermediary. Code automatically executes actions when certain conditions are met.

This could include releasing funds for a project once it has received sufficient votes or
vesting token unlocks into the Ecosystem Fund. By automating these processes, smart
contracts not only increase efficiency but also ensure fairness and transparency,
reinforcing the core principles of the ApeCoin DAO.

3. Learn about the benefits and challenges of DAO’s
ApeCoin DAO embodies the principles of collective ownership and democratized access to
resources and decision-making abilities for its community. It excels at coordinating and
incentivizing its diverse group of APE token holders towards common goals, such as
funding proposals that enhance the value of the ecosystem or supporting initiatives that
align with the DAO’s mission.

ApeCoin DAO enables direct participation in decision-making, fostering a sense of
ownership and engagement among its members. Moreover, ApeCoin DAO is effective at
managing and distributing resources in a transparent way. Through the proposal process,
resources are allocated based on community consensus. Each proposal undergoes a rigorous
review and voting process, ensuring that resources are directed towards initiatives that
have community support.

Aligning incentives is a critical aspect of ApeCoin DAO’s operations. The DAO could
potentially face a ‘tragedy of the commons’ scenario, where the lack of clear mandates
or tangible benefits might discourage members from taking ownership of tasks or
initiatives. To counteract this, ApeCoin DAO has implemented several community led
initiatives such as the Working Group structure implemented by AIP-239 as well as the
proposal process to incentivize active participation and ownership.

Efficiency challenges are a reality for the ApeCoin DAO, as they are for many
decentralized organizations. The need to achieve consensus among a diverse group of
APE token holders can sometimes slow down decision-making processes. However, this is
a feature, not a bug; ensuring that decisions reflect the collective will of the
community and are not dictated by a central authority.

Dispute resolution in the ApeCoin DAO is also a complex issue due to its decentralized
nature. However, the DAO is committed to transparency and fairness in all its
operations. Disputes related to proposals or decisions are addressed through open
discussion and voting, ensuring that all voices are heard and that the final decision
aligns with the majority’s view. Despite these challenges, ApeCoin DAO remains committed
to its principles of transparency, inclusivity, and direct participation, continually
seeking ways to improve its processes and structures.

4. What is the ApeCoin DAO?
ApeCoin DAO is a community-driven organization that operates on the principles of
decentralization and autonomy. Any APE token holders may propose an AIP, or APE
Improvement Proposal. The DAO will then deliberate, and vote on these initiatives which
impact the ApeCoin ecosystem. These AIPs often take the form of grants to incentivize
the community to build out the overall APE ecosystem.

5. Explore the Mission, Vision, and Values of the ApeCoin DAO
Mission Statement: Culture has found new expression in web3 through art, gaming,
entertainment, and events. The possibilities for blockchain’s impact on culture are so
endless that they can’t possibly all be predicted yet. APE is a token made to support
what’s next, controlled and built on by the community. It will serve as a decentralized
protocol layer for community-led initiatives that drive culture forward into the metaverse

Vision: From ApeCoin.com 2: “Culture has found new expression in web3 through art,
gaming, entertainment, and events. The possibilities for blockchain’s impact on culture
are so endless that they can’t possibly all be predicted yet. APE is a token made to
support what’s next, controlled and built on by the community. It will serve as a
decentralized protocol layer for community-led initiatives that drive culture forward
into the metaverse.”

Values: The values of ApeCoin DAO are centered around community, transparency, and
innovation. The DAO believes in the power of community and the potential of every member
to contribute to the ecosystem. It values transparency in its operations and
decision-making processes, as evidenced by AIPs like AIP-121, which proposed a
transparency act for Ecosystem Fund Allocations.

Boldness: We don’t shy away from the weird, the hard, or the new.
Equality: One APE equals one APE.
Transparency: Processes and decisions are shared openly with the community.
Collective Responsibility: We leave everything better than we found it.
Persistence: Success is an ouroboros, not a straight line.

6. Learn about the DAO's structure and key roles
The ApeCoin DAO is structured as two parts of a larger whole. Similar to a ship and its
crew, we need both if we want to reach our destination.

The APE Foundation is like the ship itself - it’s the tangible, physical entity that
provides the structure, resources, and initial direction. It’s built with a specific
purpose in mind and is equipped with everything needed to achieve that purpose.

The DAO, on the other hand, is like the crew of the ship. They’re the ones who actually
operate the ship, making decisions about where to go, how to navigate, and what actions
to take. They’re not just passive passengers; they’re actively involved in steering the
ship, planning the route, and navigating the waters.

Just as a ship needs a crew to deliver its cargo, the APE Foundation needs the DAO to
bring its vision to life. And just as a crew needs a ship to embark on their journey,
the DAO needs the Foundation company to provide the framework and resources for their
governance processes.

7. Get insights into the Ape Foundation
Within the Foundation, and the DAO, there are various roles and entities, each with
their own responsibilities and functions. First, let’s dive into the APE Foundation.

The APE Foundation:
From ApeCoin.com/about: “The APE Foundation is the steward of ApeCoin. It is not an
overseer, but the base layer on which ApeCoin holders in the ApeCoin DAO can build.
The Foundation facilitates decentralized and community-led governance and is designed
to become more decentralized over time.”

The Foundation is tasked with administering the decisions of the ApeCoin DAO, and is
responsible for day-to-day administration, bookkeeping, project management, and other
tasks that ensure the DAO community’s ideas have the support they need to become a
reality.” - Apecoin.com

Special Council: The Special Council is a five-person elected group of DAO members who
provide oversight of the Foundation administrators. Members of the Special Council are
elected for one-year terms, with seats rotating up for election every six months for
terms starting in the months of January, and July. The process for nominating and
electing members to the Special Council is outlined in AIP-137 and AIP-138.

The Special Council is responsible for administering DAO proposals and serving the
vision of the community. They meet to discuss proposals requiring administrative
review under ApeCoin DAO rules, as approved in AIP-1 1.

AIP-282 has created a comprehensive description of the Special Council role.

The DAO Administrators:
In the ApeCoin DAO, members have the power to influence the direction of the ecosystem
through their votes. However, the Foundation, as a legal entity, still plays a crucial
role. It’s the engine room of the ship, ensuring that the DAO’s decisions are
implemented and the day-to-day operations run smoothly. The Foundation’s
responsibilities encompass administering the DAO’s decisions, and managing daily tasks
like bookkeeping, grant disbursement, and project management. This ensures that the
innovative ideas from our community have the necessary support to come to life.

The DAO Administrators were originally engaged for a specific scope as ratified in
AIP-1 1, including:
To provide operational support and project management support for the Foundation;
To act as the team of moderators, administrators, and lead in Discourse;
To act as the team of reviewers to prepare reports and any other supporting documentation
necessary; and
Manage Discourse and Snapshot.

The Request for Proposal process carried out by Working Group Zero, from AIP-196, in
addition to the Working Group Guidelines proposal from AIP-239, have adjusted this scope
slightly to several administrative support categories including:

Compliance and Legal: The DAO Administrators assist with ensuring legal and regulatory
compliance of the APE Foundation under applicable law. They also facilitate the legal
processes with respect to APE Foundation activities as determined by the Director,
Supervisor, and Special Council including but not limited to: Vendor Contracts, Grant
Due Diligence, Grant Agreements, and Trademarks.

Finance: They are also responsible for administering the APE Foundation’s finances as
determined by the Director, Supervisor, and Special Council including but not limited
to: Accounts Payable, Accounts Receivable, Bookkeeping and Financial Reporting.

Operations: The DAO Administrators also facilitate weekly Special Council meetings,
apply and adhere to AIP guidelines, administer and maintain social media accounts, and
publish content to said accounts as directed by the DAO working group(s), maintain and
update the ApeCoin website and maintain the Discourse Enterprise Account, as well as
maintain @apecoin email addresses and answer or forward incoming email to relevant
parties as necessary.

Treasury: Our DAO Administrators also facilitate the administration of the APE
Foundation Treasury, including but not limited to: counterparty risk mitigation,
custodian account management, facilitating OTC sales of ApeCoin, facilitating SAFE
Multisig usage, maintaining addresses to hold apecoin.eth ENS & the ApeCoin NFT.

The ApeCoin DAO selected our current DAO Administrators, WebSlinger, through a
snapshot vote.

8. Learn about ApeCoin DAO Working Groups
AIP-239 ratified a process for creating community-led infrastructure, called Working
Groups, for the ApeCoin DAO. The primary motivation for having Working Groups to
facilitate DAO operations is to prevent a single point of failure, while decentralizing
DAO operations into the hands of the community. Working Groups enable a sustainable
infrastructure which allows the DAO to operate efficiently while adapting to any
challenges.

Working groups can be formed within the DAO, each with its own charter and elected
members. These groups focus on specific areas such as Governance, Metaverse and
Marketing & Communications, as per AIP-239, AIP-245, and AIP-246. Working Groups are
intentional community-led infrastructure, which allow for the execution of DAO-approved
mandates. Working Group Charters outline a mandate for a Working Group, which must
align with the vision and values of the ApeCoin DAO. A Working Group Charter consists of:

Mandate and Scope - What does this group do?
OKRs, if any - How is progress measured against budget proposals?
Initiatives, if any - Which specific tasks or teams does this group need?
Reporting Requirements - How often will this group report to the DAO?
Stewards, if any - Who will maintain this group until the next election?
Budget - How much will this cost until the next Funding Window? (Can be $0)

Any DAO member may propose a new Working Group. If the proposed Charter is approved by
the DAO, an election will be held to select the 3 Stewards who will manage their Working
Group until the next election cycle.

Working Group Stewards are elected on a rotating seat basis every six months, similar to
the Special Council. They are responsible for supervising the operations of their Working
Group, taking custody of a budget into their multisig, and paying their individual
contributors. The responsibilities of Stewards include, but are not limited to:

Managing their Working Group multisig;
Operational tasks related to the administration of their Working Group;
Maintaining relevant documents and their Working Group Charter;
Creating, implementing and managing initiatives within a Working Group
Communicating and coordinating with the APE Foundation Administrators, Special Council
and the DAO Secretary;
Approving budgets for Initiatives and contributors;
Executing on the mandate in their Working Group Charter.

Note: Stewards are responsible for facilitating the will of the DAO. Stewards of Working
Groups can be mandated to perform tasks, set objectives and goals, sign documents and
enter into agreements pending the outcome of our governance process, or an AIP.

Note: Stewards are directly responsible for their Initiatives. These are teams that have
been delegated responsibility from a Working Group to perform a specific task or tasks.
This means Stewards can create and terminate Initiatives as needed. If a specific
Initiative is not meaningfully contributing towards the fulfillment of the Working
Group’s Mandate, the Initiative needs to be adjusted, reworked, edited, or otherwise
removed.

Working Group Budgets:

Working Groups propose a budget to the DAO every six months, within the months of
February and August, in order to fund the operations of their Working Group. Stewards
of a Working Group shall have the discretion to allocate their own Working Group funds
where appropriate and where it is not illegal or in conflict with any AIPs or other rules.

Working Group Multisigs & ENS Names:

Each working Group has three Stewards which, together with the DAO Secretary, make up the
signers on their multisigs. Each Working Group Multisig is a 3/4 requiring all three
Stewards, or two Stewards and the Secretary, to approve transactions.

The Governance Working Group Multisig can be found here:
GnosisSafeProxy | Address 0x3b319DeF689F90f9dC406c163434DF31b06d0fc2 | Etherscan

9. The Governance Working Group Stewards, Discourse Facilitators and the DAO Secretary
The Governance Working Group is the ApeCoin DAO’s first Working Group approved in AIP-239.
The Governance Working Group’s mandate is to provide neutral and objective governance
oversight and support for the operations of the ApeCoin DAO. It was designed specifically
to reduce the scope of our DAO Administrators from facilitating the entirety of our
governance process, from AIP-1.

The Governance Working Group Stewards are responsible for:

Providing operational support and project management support for the Foundation;
Coordinating the team of moderators, administrators, and lead in Discourse;
Assisting with transitioning of Foundation service providers;
Creating and maintaining policies and procedures as they relate to governance;
Maintaining operations and supporting governance Initiatives like the Ape Assembly and
the DAO Secretary;
Assisting with facilitating the Special Council Election Process as outlined in AIP-137:
The Special Council Nomination Process, and AIP-138: The Special Council Election Process.

The Governance Working Group has several Initiatives, or teams, with which to fulfill
the mandate in their Charter:

Community Discourse Facilitators
Community Discourse Facilitators are responsible for moderating and facilitating
discussions within the ApeCoin DAO community, as per AIP-240 1. The Discourse Facilitator
team is responsible for several tasks on our governance forum, including:

Reviewing new users’ profiles and posts to Discourse;
Troubleshooting user profile issues;
Coordinating with authors to move AIPs through the pipeline and informing the community
of these updates according to DAO approved guidelines;
Creating Draft Analysis Reports (DARs), including a series of questions to authors,
for Administrative Review;
Coordinating an AIP Status Board via a Project Management Tool;
Coordinating amongst themselves as Facilitators;
Coordinating with the APE Foundation Administration Team.
DAO Secretary

The DAO Secretary ensures the smooth operation of the DAO. They manage the proposal
process, coordinate with other DAO members and working groups, and ensure that the
DAO’s rules and procedures are followed. The DAO Secretary is responsible for:

Managing a DAO-wide calendar;
Managing a DAO-wide organization chart;
Publishing a monthly ApeCoin DAO Transparency Report;
Publishing an annual ApeCoin DAO Progress Report;
Attending at least one weekly meeting with each Working Group;
Ensuring meeting summaries are posted in the governance forum;
Attending at least one meeting weekly with each Working Group where possible;
Assisting Stewards with coordination challenges within Working Groups;
Participating in a bi-weekly coordination call, held with the Leads from each Working
Group, to align broader DAO strategy;
Acting as a multisig signer for Working Groups.

The Ape Assembly

The Ape Assembly is an electorate of highly active governance participants in the ApeCoin
Ecosystem. They are tasked with facilitating the elections for all the Working Group
Stewards with the exception of Governance Stewards. The Ape Assembly is responsible for:

Facilitating Working Group Steward elections
Determining the term length of the DAO Secretary
Meeting regularly to discuss DAO-wide issues and collectively write AIPs to address them
Focused on governance, coordination and transparency within the DAO

10. Learn about APE token holders, and their role in the DAO

ApeCoin Token Holders are not just passive participants in the ApeCoin ecosystem -
they’re an integral part of the ApeCoin DAO. With the power to propose initiatives,
engage in meaningful discussions, and cast votes on key proposals, token holders play a
crucial role in the decision-making process.

11. DAO Processes
The ApeCoin DAO operates through a series of processes, including proposal creation,
discussion, voting, and implementation. The proposal process allows any member to propose
an initiative or change. Once a proposal is made, it is open for discussion by the
community. After the discussion period, the proposal is put to a vote. If the proposal is
approved by the community, it is then implemented by either the Working Groups, or the
DAO Administrators.

12. Dive into the ApeCoin DAO proposal process
Any DAO member can create a proposal which is then discussed and voted on by the
community. A new proposal can be vague, a simple idea, but for it to go to vote it needs
to follow the AIP Draft Template.

Proposals can cover a wide range of topics, from changes to the DAO’s operations to new
initiatives for the ApeCoin ecosystem.

The Proposal Process is detailed in AIP-1

13. Learn about our voting process, and how consensus is found
Voting is a crucial part of the DAO process. DAO members can vote on proposals, elect
Special Council members or Working Group Stewards, and make other key decisions impacting
the operations of the DAO. Voting is conducted in a transparent and democratic manner on
Snapshot, with 1 APE token = 1 VOTE. AIPs go up for vote every Thursday at 9PM EST, and
continue until the following Wednesday at 9PM EST.

The Voting Process is detailed in AIP-2 and AIP-200.

14. Learn about voter delegation and its significance
Voter delegation allows DAO members to delegate their voting power to others, without
losing control or access to their tokens. Delegation is a powerful tool that can increase
participation in the DAO and ensure that all members’ interests are represented.

AIP-89 created a delegate dashboard for the ApeCoin DAO to better understand their token
holders and delegations. The ApeCoin DAO relies on its delegations to ensure the
integrity and validity of our consensus mechanisms.

The ApeCoin delegation dashboard can be found here: delegate.apecoin.com

15. The AIP Process, start to finish
Our proposal process follows several “Phases,” as detailed in AIP-1.

In Phase 1: Community members submit new ideas for approval, discussion, or rejection.
A Discourse Facilitator, guided by DAO-approved guidelines, reviews each submission.
Ideas can range from detailed proposals to simple suggestions beneficial to the DAO.
Once an idea has been submitted and approved on the forums, the community will have seven
days to discuss the proposal and add their feedback for the author.

In Phase 2: Once the author is ready to continue to the AIP Draft phase, they will be
requested to edit their Topic in the AIP Ideas category, using the AIP Draft Template
to include any changes/feedback from the community. Completed AIP Drafts, that comply
with the Guidelines, are then moved from the AIP Ideas category to the appropriate
subcategory of the AIP Drafts parent category, and reopened.

In Phase 3: Once the AIP Draft is received, the AIP moves to the Analysis Report phase.
The AIP Draft is reviewed by a project management team engaged by APE Foundation, who
will provide an in-depth AIP Draft Analysis Report, or DAR. The purpose of the DAR is
to ensure that all costs, steps to implement, legal considerations, third-party review
requirements, potential conflicts of interests, and any further implications have been
properly considered and identified prior to a vote.

In Phase 4: The DAR package is reviewed, and if the AIP is complying with DAO-approved
guidelines, it becomes a Pending AIP and moves to Phase 5. If a DAR package fails to
comply with DAO-approved guidelines, it is eligible for resubmission unless in cases
of violation of the law or reasonable suspicion of fraud or other misleading information.

In Phase 5: AIPs that have passed AIP Moderation will then either be tagged as “Straight
to Vote” or “Needs Administrative Review.” The “Straight to Vote” tag is for any AIP with
costs, content, and implications considered to be straightforward and of no risk to the
well-being of the DAO. The “Needs Administrative Review” tag is given for any pending
AIP whose costs, content, or implications are considered to be complicated or a potential
risk to the well-being of the DAO.

In Phase 6: The Special Council will review AIPs in the Administrative Review category.
The Special Council is responsible for ensuring that the costs, content, and implications
in AIPs are clear before they are put up for a vote.

In Phase 7: Drafts that have passed their respective approval processes will become a
Live AIP on Snapshot during the next Weekly AIP Release, which is when new AIPs are
released in batches every Thursday at 9PM EST. AIPs will be Live on Snapshot until the
following Wednesday at 9PM EST.

In Phase 8: After the vote on Snapshot has concluded, the AIP will be moved to the
Final AIP category on the forums. There are two subcategories for the Final AIP status:
accepted and rejected. Rejected Final AIPs will have the chance to be resubmitted via
the appropriate Resubmission Template if the author contacts a moderator to initiate
this process. Accepted Final AIPs will move into implementation, or Phase 9.

In Phase 9: Final AIPs which have been accepted by the DAO will be implemented.
The project management team engaged by the APE Foundation is responsible for making sure
this happens but not responsible for doing it themselves.

16. ApeCoin tokenomics & allocations
The total supply of ApeCoin is permanently fixed at 1 billion tokens. There is no minting
capability in the contract, thus the total supply will never increase. Similarly, the
contract interface does not expose any token burning capability. ApeCoin was allocated at
launch to BAYC/MAYC NFT holders, the ApeCoin DAO Ecosystem Fund, Yuga Labs, the BAYC
Founders, other launch contributors, and charity.

In line with the standard practice, a portion of the tokens released are initially
locked. Locked tokens will be unlocked over a period of 48 months, in accordance with the
predetermined unlock schedule below, starting on launch day, March 17, 2022.

The initial distribution of Apecoin (APE) tokens is as follows:
14.00% is allocated to Launch Contributors
15.00% is allocated to BAYC/MAYC NFT Holders
47.00% is allocated to Treasury/Resources
15.00% is allocated to Yuga Labs
1.00% is allocated to Charity (JGLF)
8.00% is allocated to BAYC Founders

17. Learn about ApeCoin staking and how it impacts token holders
As a first step to ApeCoin becoming the preferred token of web3, early NFT adopters and
existing and potential ecosystem participants are incentivized.

ApeCoin staking was proposed around incentivizing existing and potential holders to
engage in the ecosystem, one of several ways additional utility has been added to ApeCoin
and the BAYC ecosystem NFTs which participate in the ApeCoin DAO.

17.5% of the total ApeCoin supply is to be distributed over the Total Staking Period of
three (3) years. This is funded by the Ecosystem Fund. Staking participants are able to
stake ApeCoin and use the Bored Ape Yacht Club ecosystem NFTs to receive ApeCoin from the
staking pool.

There are a total of four ways to stake ApeCoin, each with predefined caps. These four
staking methods are:

BAYC NFT Staking:
47,105,000 ApeCoin Tokens allocated for 3 years, capped at 10,094 staked ApeCoin per
BAYC NFT.

MAYC NFT Staking:
19,060,000 ApeCoin Tokens allocated for 3 years, capped at 2,042 staked ApeCoin per MAYC
NFT.

BAKC Paired NFT Staking:
3,835,000 ApeCoin Tokens allocated for 3 years, capped at 856 staked ApeCoin per paired
NFT.

ApeCoin Staking:
30,000,000 ApeCoin Tokens allocated for 3 years, with no cap on staked ApeCoin.

The total staking periods for ApeCoin are as follows:

Year One: 100,000,000 ApeCoin tokens (10.0% of the total ApeCoin supply)
Year Two: 50,000,000 ApeCoin tokens (5.0% of the total ApeCoin supply)
Year Three: 25,000,000 ApeCoin tokens (2.5% of the total ApeCoin supply)

The staking process is explained in AIP-21 and AIP-22.

This is the staking contract: 0x5954aB967Bc958940b7EB73ee84797Dc8a2AFbb9

18. Key Initiatives
The ApeCoin DAO has launched several key initiatives to support its mission and
community. These include security (AIP-9), funding for public goods (AIP-96), an ApeCoin
NFT marketplace (AIP-98), a community rewards initiative (AIP-124), and more:

Working Groups: AIP-239: Working Group Guidelines & The Governance Working Group Charter

Boring Security: AIP-9 - Boring Security

Bored Ape Gazette: AIP-70: Bored Ape Gazette: Ape Coin Media/ BAYC News - Ecosystem Fund
Allocation

AIP-96: ETHGlobal: AIP-96: Funding for Public Goods (ETHGlobal & Gitcoin)

Thank Ape: AIP-124: Thank APE: Decentralized, Automated Rewards for Valuable ApeCoin
Contributions

Karma: AIP-132: Karma - Reputation system for ApeCoin governance contributors

Ape Accelerator: AIP-209: Ape Accelerator powered by ApeCoin

Digital Art Movement (DAM): AIP-304: Create the Digital Art Movement Collection to
acquire Yuga Assets (BAYC, MAYC, BAKC, and Punks and other notable NFTs for exhibition
and donation to art institutions

ApeCoin NFT Sister DAO: AIP-297: An NFT Community Vault Operating as an ApeCoin Sister
DAO with a Goal to Advance the Mission and Influence of ApeCoin


AIP-64: APE Coin Festival - Bringing NFT Communities Together
Author: ssp1111

Proposal Name: Feasibility Study for Web3 Village (an NFT Conference & Festival)

Proposal Category: Branding, Marketing, IRL Events

Abstract:
This proposal is for a Feasibility Study ONLY (not an actual event)
This proposal is based on our collective experiences at NFT-nyc and the countless
requests for a “better” NFT conference/festival
This proposal is NOT a substitute for ApeFest – YUGA will do their own thing for their
communities
This AIP is proposing to do the legwork to secure letters of interest from various NFT
Communities, Brands, Sponsors, Venues and Event Cos BEFORE drafting a separate proposal
for putting together a DAO-Owned and Managed Conference & Festival - aka Web3 Village

Motivation:
As NFT-NYC showed this past week, IRL events are a great way to bring online
communities together.
Further, it was clear as day that if all the satellite events joined up to create a space
where attendees could walk from project to project, where combined resources would save
major $$$ while elevating activations, and where a master calendar would help avoid
scheduling conflicts, the effort would be well received

Rationale
The APE Coin DAO is all about bringing NFT communities together and onboarding newcomers
to the space.
As NFT-NYC showed this past week, IRL events are a great way to accomplish both. And
while there are countless ideas floating around for a better NFT event, it would be fire
:fire: if the APE Coin DAO was the foundation on which this flagship event and combined
ideas were built upon

Key Terms:
Web3 Village = General concept and working name for our NFT Conference & Festival
Feasibility Study = gathering resources, contacts, venues, producers, brands, sponsors,
etc, aggregating feedback and converting to actionable data*

Specifications:
Landing Page
Airtable
Phone

Steps to Implement:
Get this proposal approved along with an APE Coin DAO “Stamp of Approval”
Work with Graphic Designer for visual collateral and social media assets ≈ $2.5k
Set-up Landing Page - executed by author at zero cost or with professional designer ≈ $2.5k
Set-up Airtable - executed by author at zero cost
Begin campaign of reaching out to Web3 attendees, activations, brands, sponsors, venues
and talent - author and volunteers at zero cost – with paid VA’s ≈ $5k

Timeline:
July - AIP drafts, rewrites, feedback, approval
August - Create collateral and begin outreach campaign
September - Aggregate content and actionable data in the form of a Pitch Deck and AIP for
APE Coin DAO to consider and vote upon
Overall Cost:

Sub $10k
PS - Author receives zero $$ from this proposal - but happy to continue leading the Web3
Village AIP


Proposal Name: Extending AIP-1 - the DAO Process
Proposal Category: Process

ABSTRACT
The DAO’s operations rely on the Ape Foundation, which serves as a steward for ApeCoin by
empowering the community to lead the DAO and helping to execute its vision. The terms of
the Foundation’s relationship with the DAO were established on a six-month basis in
AIP-1. That six-month period will conclude on September 30, and absent any alternative
process for continuing the DAO’s operations, will bring with it the risk that the DAO
falls into a vulnerable period during which it lacks actionable operational procedures.
This AIP proposes a three-month extension of the terms laid out in AIP-1 to (1) provide
time for the development of a proper and thorough Ape Foundation election framework and
process; (2) allow the community to better understand and ultimately engage with whatever
process emerges; and (3) enable the DAO to continue functioning coherently beyond
September 30.

MOTIVATION
The DAO in its current state relies on the Ape Foundation to operate. September 30 will
mark six months since the launch of the ApeCoin DAO, and with it will come an end to the
six-month terms of the Ape Foundation Special Council and Administration established in
AIP-1. The lack to-date of a community AIP on elections confirms that the election
process as written in the governance materials is ambiguous and lacks sufficient detail.
This AIP gives the community extra time to develop and agree to a thoughtful and
comprehensive election framework, and ensure the DAO continues to run smoothly.

RATIONALE
A three-month extension of the terms laid out in AIP-1 will accomplish two main goals.
An extension will provide continuity and stability: the Foundation doesn’t just execute
what the community wants - it enables us to ensure we are compliant with the necessary
legal, regulatory, and compliance laws and guidance so we can operate effectively.
Second, the extension will allow the community to better understand, contribute to, and
ultimately engage with whatever election process emerges.

SPECIFICATIONS
Extend the terms laid out in AIP-1 by a period of 3 months.

STEPS TO IMPLEMENT
This AIP will go through the same approval process as all other AIPs. It will start as
an AIP Idea that is open for a 7-day comment period. A proposal will then be drafted
for further analysis, and it will go to the Special Council for review and finally the
community will vote on it via Snapshot.

If this AIP is passed, the terms laid out in AIP-1 will be extended by 3 months.

TIMELINE
If passed, this AIP would go into effect for 3 months immediately following the term laid
out in AIP-1 and beginning on October 1st.

COSTS
This AIP would continue the monthly recurring costs laid out in AIP-1.


Proposal Name: Ape&Talent - Platform to connect talent within the Ape community

Proposal Category: Ecosystem Fund Allocation

Abstracts
One of the perks of being an Ape is belonging to one of the strongest communities within
the Web3 world but sometimes it’s hard to communicate what you can do for the community
or what the community can do for you. This AIP proposes the creation of a platform that
facilitates the connection of talent/needs between the Ape community: BAYC, MAYC, BAKC
and ApeCoin holders.

Motivation
One of the best places to be, being an Ape, is on the official Discord channel. I have
been belonging to MAYC for 10 months, since then I have collaborated on several projects
and helped several apes in the fields that I have more knowledge (15 years Software
engineering: Blockchain security, image processing, dapps development…). Whenever I see
that someone needs help with any of these fields, I offer my services on Discord but
this information is ephemeral and lost in time (people do not usually use Discord
history since an immediate interaction is expected). The downside is if you’re very
active on Discord, this can be spam about you and Discord becomes not an optimal site
for it.

A few weeks ago, an Ape needed a higher resolution of his PFP for merch using his MAYC,
when offering me on Discord, another Ape said that days before he hired an external
person to do that job for him, if he had known, he would have preferred to contact
someone within the Ape community and I quote you what he said “I’d rather invest into
someone who is in a project im in rather than paying someone i’ve never had contact
with…keep it in the family so to speak”. This was the seed of the creation of this AIP.

In summary, it’s a marketplace (platform) where the Apes will be able to include their
talents or what fields they have experience and believe they can help to the community
but on the other side, instead of being businesses/agencies, they will be the Apes
themselves.

Examples:
You are a Bored who is going to start a fast food business and you need someone to help
you with the design of the advertising posters or a developer to help you with the
creation of a website.

You are a Mutant and you would like to give your partner a gift for his birthday with a
painting (or any type of physical merch) of his beloved BAKC and you don’t know where
to go.

You are a BAKC holder and you have heard that there are ways to improve the security of
your wallets but you do not know where to start or you have some doubts and you would
love someone you trust (advisor) to help you.

You are an ApeCoin holder and you want to take a trip to Europe but you don’t know
anyone to advise you on such a trip because it is your first time on the continent.

Rationale
There is a lot of talent within the Ape community but unless you are very active on
Discord or have thousands of Twitter followers, it can be difficult to get your talent
noticed within the community and strengthen internal connections within ApeCoin and
BAYC ecosystem NFTs.

Specifications
For the build of this platform, the team will be composed of

UI Designer
Frontend Engineer
Backend Engineer (me)

And we’ll use these technologies:

NodeJS
TypeScript
React
MongoDB
Terraform
Nextjs

This platform only can be accesible for the holders of:

BAYC
MAYC
BAKC
ApeCoin

For ApeCoin holders, a minimum amount will be defined to avoid spam and increase the
security. This amount is yet to be defined (500-800 $APE) but will be updated
periodically as the market grows or declines.

Steps to Implement
Although we have great ideas for the future: development of apps, smart notifications,
messaging, highlighted content… etc (their development would be approved or not in
future AIPs, we want to develop it together with the community). The team is focused on
delivery, so our first version will include the following features:

Search → The user will be able to find any member of the Ape community that matches their
search

Detail → Detail of a member’s profile in which you can see which are the fields in which
you can offer his services, previous experiences, comments from other users (reviews)…

Login → The login is tokengated and there will be a gas-less signature required. Each
account will be associated with the Ethereum address that we have logged in and must
contain one of the assets described above (otherwise the login will not be possible).

Profile → Place where the connected user will be able to update all their info and some
of them will be indexed to be used in the search process. Some of the information you can
update is your social networks, previous jobs that validate your experience, uploading
files with examples like artworks… etc.

Reviews → There will be a review system in which you can see previous work with other
Apes (and their feedback). When a talent is requested, the Ape receiving the help will
be able to leave a comment about it.

We’ll have a public Trello dashboard to show to everyone how the process is going and
we’ll open a beta to share our progress and get feedback from the community as we build.

Timeline
The estimated time frame is 3-4 months until the final 1.0 version is ready.

Overall Cost
If finally the funding is secured, 23,000 ApeCoin will be reserved. When the final
version (1.0) is published and ready, this reserved fund will be sent to our wallet,
we will only receive the funds once we deliver the final version to the community
(focused on delivery).

The funds obtained in this AIP will provide us with enough help to finance the
development of the project bases (1.0), fixing possible bugs in the future/minor updates,
help center and maintenance costs in the time window of a year since the platform is
ready in production (4 months + 12 months).


Proposal Name: Provide ApeCoin Brand Assets for AIP-96

Proposal Category: Core: Brand Decision

Abstract
In order to fully represent the ApeCoin DAO at the upcoming ETH San Francisco Hackathon2,
we (@maariab. @ssp1111, @Halina.eth, @Lost @Amplify, and others) are requesting usage of
the ApeCoin Logo for promotional materials for an IRL sponsorship table at the event.
Some items include, but are not limited to, an ApeCoin tablecloth, an ApeCoin banner, and
ApeCoin swag.

Motivation
Now that AIP-96 has passed, 9 we will be participating in the upcoming ETHGlobal
Hackathon, ETH SF, in November. We require access to the ApeCoin brand in order to fully
represent the DAO during the event.

Rationale
This AIP allows members of the ApeCoin DAO to use the ApeCoin brand assets for
promotional purposes for live and online events.

Specifications
None

Steps to Implement
If this AIP passes, we will use the ApeCoin Logo to create swag items and branding
resources for the hackathon sponsorship table. No items will be sold, no profits will be
earned, and no funding is requested in this AIP.

Additionally, we will create a package of generic assets & promotional materials that can
be used by members of the ApeCoin DAO for in-person and online events, provided that
these materials are used for promotional purposes only. This marketing and promotional
package can only be used for non-profitable causes.

Timeline
ASAP

Overall Cost
There is no cost to the DAO


AIP-138: The Special Council Election Process
Proposal Category: Process

Abstract
Two or three sentences that summarize the proposal.

This AIP establishes an election process for the Special Council. The proposed process
aims to ensure that all candidates have an equal and fair opportunity to be nominated
for the ApeCoin Special Council Election.

Motivation
A statement on why the APE Community should implement the proposal.

To advance the ApeCoin DAO’s path to decentralization, an election process that enables
qualified community members to serve in the DAO’s leadership is required. This AIP covers
the most essential pieces of that process. It aims to build critical infrastructure from
which the DAO can grow.

Rationale
An explanation of how the proposal aligns with the APE Community’s mission and guiding
values.

The long-term health of the ApeCoin DAO depends on a well-functioning nomination and
election process for the Special Council. This AIP consolidates much of the great
thinking the community has already put forth on this subject. That thinking is reflected
below in the proposed specifications, as well as in the following guiding principles for
writing this AIP:

Focusing on the essentials, knowing that more nice-to-have yet complex additions (e.g.,
reporting requirements, gamified participation, working groups/subDAOs, complex
vote-weighting techniques) can be addressed via follow-on AIPs at a later date.
By keeping things simple, the likelihood of consensus can be enhanced while also
decreasing risks like gridlock.
Balancing stability and fluidity, recognizing that some continuity from one term to the
next helps to maintain steady progress, while at the same time valuing the periodic
cycling in of new members and ideas.
Favor the tried and tested where there is not an obvious reason for doing otherwise –
this will limit the amount of complementary infrastructure that needs to be built and
new platforms the community will need to learn, which could reduce participation.

Key Terms
Definitions of any terms within the proposal that are unique to the proposal, new to the
APE Community, and/or industry-specific.

Candidate: Candidates are the Nominees that become eligible for the elections process.

The Special Council Nomination Process: The AIP that establishes a nomination process for
the Special Council.

Specifications
A detailed breakdown of the platforms and technologies that will be used.

Special Council Seats
If this AIP passes, this is intended to occur one-time to determine which seats are up
for election at the election cycles.
Seat numbers will be assigned to existing Special Council members. These seat numbers
will be from 1 to 5.

Election Cycles
Timing and cadence of elections: Elections shall occur every 6 months.
Nomination and election to occur over November & December; elected Special Council
member(s) to start in January (“Cycle One”)
Nomination and election to occur over May & June; elected Special Council member(s) to
start in July (“Cycle Two”)
The following seats will be up for election at these times:
Cycle One: Seats 1, 2, & 3
Cycle Two: Seats 4 & 5
Rationale: Succession planning is paramount. A twice-yearly staggered process helps to
maintain continuity for longer-term objectives and avoids a cataclysmic change wherein
every Special Council seat is up for re-election at once. This should be balanced against
the risk of low participation-rates from excessively frequent elections.

Election Terms & Limits
Term: Each seat is for one-year term.
Term limit: An existing Special Council member may nominate themselves for re-election
and be elected to the Special Council up to 2 terms in a row.
Following the term limit, the former Special Council member must wait at least 1 election
cycle prior to being able to nominate themselves for the Special Council. In other words,
if the term limit ended on Cycle One, the Special Council member may nominate themselves
for the next Cycle Two election.
Rationale: The one-year term-length was outlined in AIP-1. One-year term lengths allow
for a balance of long-term orientation while encouraging active participation from
Special Council members. A two-year term-limit affords ample time to steward long-term
projects and strategy in the event the community supports the member reaching the maximum
duration.

Election Vote on Snapshot
Candidates for Special Council are determined in The Special Council Nomination Process.
Candidate profiles will be in the Discourse category Special Council Elections > Election Candidates.
Voting will take place on Snapshot
Each Candidate will be an option on the Snapshot vote
Each ApeCoin DAO member can only select one Candidate and that Candidate will receive all
of such ApeCoin DAO member’s voting power
An ApeCoin DAO member who has delegated their votes to another member may cast a vote
themselves and override the delegated vote
The vote will be released at the Weekly AIP Release and will close at the following
Weekly Voting Close
No other AIPs will go up for vote at this Weekly AIP Release, and all approved AIPs for
vote will be released at the following Weekly AIP Release
The top 3 voted Candidates in Cycle One and top 2 voted Candidates in Cycle Two shall be
elected to the Special Council, subject to adjustments from off-cycle departures or lack
of Candidates.

Off-Cycle Departures
In the event of the voluntary or involuntary departure of a Special Council member, that
seat will be incorporated into the upcoming election cycle, after which it will return to
the same election cycle schedule that it would have been on if the departing member had
remained.
Any partial terms for a Special Council member from off-cycle departures will not be
counted towards the term limit. For example, if a Special Council seat is in Cycle One
but a Candidate is elected to replace the Special Council member in Cycle Two, then the 6
months served by the newly elected Special Council member will not count towards the term limit.
Steps to Implement
The steps to implement the proposal, including associated costs, manpower, and other
resources for each step where applicable.

• A nomination process is required to determine the Candidates eligible for election, as
described in The Special Council Nomination Process.
• Candidates will be placed in the appropriate Discourse category, Election Candidates.
• Each Special Council member will be assigned a seat number.
• A Snapshot vote is created with the Candidates at the appropriate Weekly AIP Release.

Timeline
Relevant timing details, including but not limited to start date, milestones, and
completion dates.

The first election shall take place in December, after The Special Council Nomination
Process occurs in November and December. Please see The Special Council Nomination
Process for estimated dates and timelines for the first nomination process.

If this AIP and The Special Council Nomination Process passes, then the estimated
Snapshot vote to determine Candidates will take place between Dec 15-21. As a result,
the Snapshot for election would be estimated to take place Dec 22-28.

Seat 1, 2, & 3 shall begin in January 2023.

Overall Cost
The total cost to implement the proposal.

There are no costs to implement this AIP.

Nonetheless, each Special Council member shall receive compensation as stated in AIP-1,
or $20,833 of ApeCoin equivalent per month for the term.


AIP-137: The Special Council Nomination Process
Proposal Category: Process

Abstract
Two or three sentences that summarize the proposal.

For the ApeCoin DAO to function and remain stable according to our Guiding Principles,
there must be a system in place for continuous governance. This document outlines the
process to allow talented, passionate and capable members of the community to surface
and ultimately be appointed via governance vote for the Special Council. The nomination
pool will be sourced through the community, administration team, and token holders by
self-nomination in ApeCoin discourse.

Motivation
A statement on why the APE Community should implement the proposal.

This AIP is primarily focused on the mechanics of how the nomination process will be
conducted. The goal of this process is to ensure that the community has a clear and
concise way to nominate Special Council members for elections that best represent the
interests of the community.

Rationale
An explanation of how the proposal aligns with the APE Community’s mission and guiding
values.

The long-term health of the ApeCoin DAO depends on a well-functioning nomination and
election process for the Special Council. This AIP consolidates much of the great
thinking the community has already put forth on this subject. That thinking is reflected
below in the proposed specifications, as well as in the following guiding principles for
writing this AIP:

Focusing on the essentials, knowing that more nice-to-have yet complex additions (e.g.,
reporting requirements, gamified participation, working groups/subDAOs, complex
vote-weighting techniques) can be addressed via follow-on AIPs at a later date.
By keeping things simple, the likelihood of consensus can be enhanced while also
decreasing risks like gridlock.
Balancing stability and fluidity, recognizing that some continuity from one term to the
next helps to maintain steady progress, while at the same time valuing the periodic
cycling in of new members and ideas.
Favor the tried and tested where there is not an obvious reason for doing otherwise –
this will limit the amount of complementary infrastructure that needs to be built and
new platforms the community will need to learn, which could reduce participation.

Key Terms
Definitions of any terms within the proposal that are unique to the proposal, new to the
APE Community, and/or industry-specific.

KYC: Know Your Customer (KYC) is the process of a business verifying the identity of its
customers. For the nomination process, KYC will ensure that candidates will not pose a
risk to the ApeCoin community and that they are not involved in any sanction list,
sanctioned country, or business.

Nomination Announcement: A nomination announcement is a topic posted in Discourse that
signifies the beginning of a nomination and election process. The nomination announcement
shall include details about the process, timeline and relevant dates, the application and
candidate process, and any other relevant details for the community.

Applicant: An applicant is any person who submits an application.

Nominee: A nominee is an Applicant that has submitted an application and completed the
KYC and background verification process.

Candidate: Candidates are the Nominees that become eligible for the elections process.

The Special Council Election Process: The AIP that establishes an election process for
the Special Council.

Specifications
A detailed breakdown of the platforms and technologies that will be used.

The nomination process will start from a Nomination Announcement from the Ape Foundation.
A new category will be added to Discourse to accommodate the nomination and election
process. This category will be named “Special Council Elections” and will have four
sub-categories:

Announcements
Special Council Nominees
Election Candidates
Rejected/Withdrawn Nominations
The Nomination Announcement will be a new topic posted in the Discourse category Special
Council Elections > Announcements. The Nomination Announcement will include the
following details:

Details about the nomination and election process
Timeline for the nomination and election process
Application and candidate process
How to apply

The Nomination Announcement will be posted at least 50 days before the voting of the
election occurs and will mark the commencement of Special Council nomination process. A
link to a form will be included in the Nomination Announcement and applicants will
complete the form to submit their application.

Experience & Expectations of Applicants
Elected Special Council members are expected to attend weekly, or on an as-needed basis,
council meetings, review AIPs at meetings or by email, and commit 3 or more hours per
week or as sufficient time as needed to the role. A standard non-disclosure agreement
shall be entered into with the Ape Foundation and KYC documents shall be collected as
well.

Given that a key function of Special Council members is to work with and assess AIPs and
their authors, it would be beneficial if then Applicant’s skills, knowledge and
abilities are collectively suited to the AIP categories. Below are listed the AIP
categories, along with the types of competencies and experiences that would suggest a
candidate has expertise relevant to that particular category.

Ecosystem Fund Allocation: Since Ecosystem Fund AIPs deal with how to use the DAO’s
treasury funds, it would be ideal for a Special Council member to have:
Educational and/or professional credentials in accounting, finance, business, economics
or a related discipline;
Proven experience working in/managing/directing large corporations; and
Exposure to virtual assets and cryptocurrencies.
Brand Decision & Informational: Given that Brand Decision and Informational AIPs deal
with all matters related to what the DAO attaches its name, including projects,
strategies, and identity, it would be ideal for a Special Council member to have:
Educational and/or professional credentials in marketing, public relations, and/or a
related discipline;
Proven experience working in/managing/directing large corporations;
An entrepreneurial mindset;
Excellent communication and writing skills; and
Exposure to virtual assets and cryptocurrencies.
Process: Given that Process AIPs deal with DAO governance, it would be ideal for a
Special Council member to have:
Educational and/or professional credentials in law, politics, policy and/or corporate
governance;
Excellent communication and writing skills; and
Exposure to virtual assets and cryptocurrencies.

Phase 1 – Application and Verification – 21 days
In this phase, Applicants will be invited to put themselves forward for the Special
Council. In the Nomination Announcement, a link to a form will be provided for Applicants
to submit the following information:

Applicant Information: The Ape Foundation is a legal entity that must collect information
and documents for KYC purposes. The information provided below shall remain confidential,
or made public with the nomination profile at the option of the Applicant.
Full name, required, private (optional for public)
Date of Birth, required, private (optional for public); the Applicant must be at least 18
years old
Street number, name, city, state/province, postal code, and country, required, private
(optional for public)
Discourse ID, required, public; the Applicant must have a Discourse profile on
forum.apecoin.com 6 and have at least 1 ApeCoin in a connected wallet
Twitter profile, required, public
Email address, required, private (optional for public)
Phone number, required, private (optional for public)
Educational background, subject to verification (optional for public)
Professional background, subject to verification (optional for public)

Documents: In order to pieces of the above information, the Ape Foundation must also
collect supporting or verification documents. All documents will remain secure and
private with the Ape Foundation.
Valid passport
Proof of address: A utility bill or bank statement in the name of the Applicant within
the last 3 months.

Nomination profile: The Applicant completes the nomination profile to build their case
to the community on why they are the best suited for the Special Council and to further
support the growth of the ApeCoin DAO. This nomination profile will be published on
the Discourse.
Nomination statement: concise statement on why you are running for Special Council
Motivation: please provide details on your motivation for being an ApeCoin DAO Special
Council member
Rationale: do you have any previous experience that is relevant to the role of a Special
Council member? Please discuss any skills relevant to this position and how these will
bring value to the ApeCoin community
Specifications: crypto governance participation, governance experience, previous
experience (work or education), and/or ideas for DAO improvement
Concluding statement: summarize your statement as to why you are the best choice for
Special Council

All information denoted as private will be treated as confidential. The application will
be open for 14 days. Special Council members whose seats are up for election must also
go through the nomination and election process to be considered.

Once the Applicant submits their information and nomination profile, a KYC and background
verification process shall take place to verify the information submitted. The Ape
Foundation may engage an independent, third-party service provider to complete this
process. This process may take up to 7 days.

At any time, an Applicant can request to withdraw their application by email.

Phase 2 – Community Discussions – 14 days

Applicants that pass the KYC and background verification process are Nominees. A new
topic for each Nominee will be posted under the new Discourse category Special Council
Elections > Special Council Nominees. This topic will be created by the administration
team and will include the following information:

Title: The title will include the Discourse ID and nomination cycle or time period;
Applicant information: All details that are public or selected to be posted as public
by the Nominee shall be included in the topic; and
Nomination profile: All details and information of the Nominee will be included in the
topic.

Topics in this category will be locked for editing but will be open for comments for 14
days. The community will be required to follow the Guidelines for Engagement at all
times. During this time, ApeCoin DAO members can engage on each topic or with each
Nominee, ask questions, and seek clarification as required prior to voting for the
Nominees.

At any time, Nominees can request the Ape Foundation to withdraw their nomination from
the process by email or on the topic itself.

Phase 3 – Community Vote (if applicable) – 6 days

A community vote will take place on Snapshot if there is a large number of Nominees. If
there are 5 or fewer Nominees, the nomination process is completed, no community vote is
necessary, and the final Nominees become Candidates for the Special Council election.

However, if there are greater than 5 Nominees, then a community vote shall take place.
The vote will be released at the Weekly AIP Release. A weighted voting on Snapshot will
be used to determine the Candidates from the Nominees. A weighted voting means the
following:
Each Nominee will be an option on the Snapshot vote
Each voter decides how to allocate their ApeCoin balance to the list of Nominees
Voters can allocate their ApeCoin to any number of Nominees

Snapshot voting will close at the Weekly Voting Close. The top 5 Nominees become the
Candidates for the election.

In other words, if there are 5 or fewer Nominees, all Nominees will become Candidates.
If there are more than 5 Nominees, then there will be 5 Candidates after the Snapshot
community vote.

Topics for Candidates are moved to the Discourse category Special Council Elections >
Election candidates. The topics of the Nominees that do not become Candidates are moved
to the Discourse category Special Council Elections > Rejected/Withdrawn Nominations.

At the end of this process, the Candidates are identified for the election of the next
Special Council member(s).

Lack of Nominees
In the event that the number of Nominees determined after the KYC and background
verification process is less than the number of Special Council seats up for election,
then the number of Special Council seats shall be reduced by such number of seats and
such seats shall be up for election at the next nomination and election cycle. These
seats shall then return to the original election cycle schedule as outlined in The
Special Council Election Process.

Steps to Implement
The steps to implement the proposal, including associated costs, manpower, and other
resources for each step where applicable.

Email: A new ApeCoin email will be set up exclusively to deal with any matter related to
the nomination (e.g., scnomination@apecoin.com).
Form: A new form will be set-up for each nomination and election cycle by Ape Foundation
to collect information from Applicants.
Discourse: The following categories will be created in Discourse.
Special Council Elections: This category will hold all the sub-categories related to the
nomination and election process. The Discourse category will be read-only, and no topics
will be posted in this category, by either ApeCoin DAO members or the administration team.
Announcements: This category will hold all announcements relating to the nomination and
election process. Specific settings include:
Only the administration team can post topics in this category
Topics will be open for comments
Special Council Nominees: This category will hold all topics for all Nominees and their
profiles for each nomination and election process. Specific settings include:
Only the administration team can post topics in the category
Topics will be open for comments
Election Candidates: This category will hold all topics for all Nominees that become
Candidates for the election process. Specific settings include:
Only the administration team can post topics in the category
Topics will be open for comments
Rejected/Withdrawn Nominations: This category will hold all topics for all Nominees that
withdraw their application or are not voted in as a Candidate.
Only the administration team can post topics in the category
Topics will be closed for comments
Nominees in this category may apply for future elections
Snapshot: No change in configuration settings for the Snapshot Space. However, each
nomination vote will be a weighted voting. In this scenario, each Nominee is an option
on the vote. A voter then allocates the number of ApeCoin to each Nominee. Nominees will
receive the distribution of the voter power based on the allocation.

Timeline
Relevant timing details, including but not limited to start date, milestones, and
completion dates.

The nomination process will go into effect immediately. The first Nomination Announcement
will be posted immediately after the acceptance of this AIP.

Oct 27-Nov 2 – Earliest Weekly AIP Release available to be posted for live voting on
Snapshot. Suppose this AIP passes.
Nov 3 – Nomination Announcement is posted.
Nov 7-20 – Applications are open.
Nov 21-27 – KYC and background verification process on all Applicants received.
Nov 28-Dec 11 – Nomination profiles are posted on Discourse and open for community
discussions.
Dec 15-21 – Nominees are put on Snapshot for voting.
Overall Cost
The total cost to implement the proposal.

There is a cost for engaging an independent third-party service provider to do KYC and
background verification of Applicants, which is to be determined. The Ape Foundation will
pay for these costs.


AIP-196: BORED AIP: Bringing Order and Reliability via Ecosystem Decentralization
Category: Ecosystem Fund Allocation

ABSTRACT
The expiration of the APE Foundation’s administrator contract for the second time in 2022
has magnified the need to develop internal capabilities and avoid reliance on any
external resource that could result in a single point of failure in the DAO. This AIP
represents progress over perfection – the only thing possible in this messy and amazing
world of decentralized governance we love.

Compared to the costs of the previous version of this proposal – the above expenses
represent a savings to the DAO of $372,812 over the 3-month period. It’s important to
note that there will be other expenses related to WG0, but their allocation will be
based fully on specific budget requests made by WG0 Stewards and subject to the approval
of the Special Council.

Authors: 0xSword, AdventurousApe, AlexM, Amplify, Badteeth, Bored.eth, BoredApeG,
Brooklyn, 8uddha, DrJDR, Gerry, Halina, Lost, Mantis, NFTC, NovoCrypto, RedVulkan,
SSP, Vera, Waabam, ZastrowBradley, j-mart, wapow, wrongplace, 12GAUGE
Updated title courtesy of CoachMcGuirk

MOTIVATION

Summary
The problem:
Per AIP-113, the current APE Foundation administrator contract expires December 31, 2022
There is an imperative need to maintain continuity and compliance of APE Foundation
operations
ApeCoin DAO does not currently have the organizational structure or capabilities to
execute any internal operations

The solution:
Extend contract with current APE Foundation administrator (Cartan Group, LLC.) two months
to maintain continuity and compliance
Implement a transparent Request for Proposals (“RFP”) process to identify future APE
Foundation administrators during the extension period (January 1 - February 28, 2022).
If necessary, complete handover to future DAO administrator
Form interim working group composed of key DAO stakeholders tasked with developing DAO
working group structures and internal capabilities

RATIONALE
Summary
Along with implementing a transparent RFP process to find the next APE Foundation
administrator, we’re motivated to further the decentralization of the DAO by creating a
working group composed of key stakeholders. These stakeholders are community members who
have shown commitment to the DAO through either participation in the governance process
or willingness to hold significant amounts of $APE and all their voices are valuable in
determining the future of ApeCoin DAO.

When we create a foundational and operational alignment of the stakeholders within this
working group, we will further realize our core mission to serve as a more decentralized
protocol layer for community-led initiatives that drive culture forward into the
metaverse and continue to actively support the growth of the $APE ecosystem.

We have avoided granular specificity in this proposal for one very simple reason – we
don’t know what we don’t know. Until we’re able to get under the hood with the current
DAO administrator we won’t have a clear understanding of all the tasks we’re about to
undertake. That is why we’ve established a clear way to assemble our first official
working group of key stakeholders, who will then have a per wallet vote on the direction
of the DAO for an intentionally short 3-month period, that will give us the structure and
capabilities we need to take on any challenges we face in the future.

To summarize, it’s imperative to note that there are certain roles and responsibilities
that a Cayman Foundation Administrator must legally fill for the ApeCoin DAO. The current
DAO Administrator (Cartan) is filling those roles as well as items that are out of their
initial scope of work. The aim of creating working groups is to fill in the areas that
are out of scope for the current DAO Administrator (Cartan) and any future Administrators
of the ApeCoin DAO going forward.

KEY TERMS
Summary
Working Group: A working group is a group of individuals who have come together to work
on a specific task or project. Working groups are typically formed to address a specific
issue or problem, and they often have a specific goal or objective in mind. Members of a
working group may be experts in a particular field or may represent different
perspectives and viewpoints. Working groups are often used in organizations to
facilitate collaboration and problem-solving, and they may be composed of employees,
volunteers, or a combination of both. Working groups may be temporary or permanent, and
they may be formally established by an organization or informally created by a group of
individuals.

Stakeholder / Key Stakeholder: Community members who have met any of the three following
requirements:
a. ApeCoin DAO members who have achieved Trust Level Status 2 (Member) or higher on
ApeCoin Discourse (the Official communication platform for DAO functions) on or before
December 21, 2022; or
b. $APE holders who have voted on at least 50% of the AIPs that have gone to Snapshot; or
c. $APE holders with 50,000 APE or more in voting power on or before December 21, 2022.

Working Group Zero (or “WG0”): WG0 is an interim working group in ApeCoin DAO with a
3-month mandate to decentralize and operationalize the DAO. WG0 is composed of key
stakeholders who have shown commitment to the DAO through either participation in the
governance process or willingness to hold significant amounts of $APE and all their
voices are valuable in determining the future of ApeCoin DAO. Along with specific
operational tasks, WG0 will propose Official ApeCoin DAO Working Groups that will
assume the responsibilities of WG0 upon the expiration of its mandate.

Official ApeCoin DAO Working Groups: Official ApeCoin DAO Working Groups will be proposed
by WG0 and serve to decentralize and operationalize DAO functions.

Focus Groups: WG0 members will be expected to organize into focus groups based on
particular domain expertise amongst the membership of WG0.
a. Priority focus groups will be Operations, Governance, and Communications in order to
effectively execute against the mandate of WG0.
b. As subject matter experts, lead participants of any working groups currently approved
by AIP, or in AIP Draft status, will form the core membership focus groups in their
specific domain, if they so desire, for the duration of WG0. E.g. Boring Security, will
form the core of the Security Focus Group, ApeComms will form the core of the
Communications Focus Group, IRL Events will form the core of the Events Focus Group, et al.
c. Additional focus groups will convene around any specific domains as desired by the
members of WG0.
d. The above does not preclude any WG0 participants from participating in any domain
specific focus group.

Steward: A total of seven members who serve Working Group Zero on behalf of the DAO.
They perform administrative oversight, are responsible for budgeting based on the needs
of WG0 as approved by the Special Council, and they are responsible for reporting on all
WG0 activities between the Special Council, the Administrators, and the Community during
the 3-month mandate of WG0.

Steward Election Window / Election Window: The period between January 7th and January
14th in which WG0 will elect four of the seven total Stewards of WG0.

SPECIFICATIONS
DAO Administrator Functions Under 2-month Extension:

Cartan Group LLC (“Cartan”) will continue to provide APE Foundation administration
services as initially detailed in AIP-1 then extended in AIP-113, for the period
January 1, 2023 - February 28, 2023.

Cartan will assist the interim ApeCoin DAO working group (“Working Group Zero” or “WG0”)
in determining and transitioning all functions that don’t explicitly require a Cayman
foundation administrator to the DAO on a schedule as determined by WG0. WG0, in
consultation with the Special Council of the APE Foundation, will determine which tasks
explicitly require a Cayman foundation administrator.

Cartan will assist WG0 in running a transparent RFP process to elect the next DAO
administrator by sharing all relevant information related to the administration of the
APE Foundation with WG0. Cartan is not precluded from submitting a proposal under the
RFP process that will be evaluated on its merit along with all other applicants.

Cartan will assist WG0 in transitioning APE Foundation administration to the next
administrator in the case that they are not willing or elected to serve as the APE
Foundation administrator following the conclusion of the RFP process.

Interim Working Group Functions Under 3-month Mandate:

Working Group Zero will determine and submit a budget to the Special Council on a monthly
basis for approval to execute the functions transitioned from the current APE Foundation
administrator and complete the additional functions listed below during the 3-month
interim period. The first month’s budget will be pre-approved up to US$44,710 in order to
be able to begin executing immediately upon the start of the interim term January 4, 2023.
WG0 will review budget requests weekly with the Special Council throughout the interim term.
Any money not allocated to expenses approved by the Special Council during the interim
term will be returned to the APE Foundation.

WG0 will determine and transition all functions that don’t explicitly require a Cayman
foundation administrator to the DAO on a schedule as determined by WG0. Due to the
corporate structure of the APE Foundation it is not legal for WG0 to take on all of the
responsibilities of any Cayman foundation administrator.

WG0 will run a transparent RFP process to elect the next DAO administrator in Q1 2023.

WG0 will propose recommendations for the extension or evolution of AIP-1 prior to its
next expiration.

WG0 will propose future Official ApeCoin DAO Working Group guidelines and objectives
via AIP that will also delegate all WG0 responsibilities to said working groups by the
end of the 3-month term and dissolve.

STEPS TO IMPLEMENT
DAO Administration
The APE Foundation will contract Cartan Group, LLC. for the 2-month period January 1, 2023
through February 28, 2023 under the specifications listed above in “DAO Administrator
Functions Under 2-month Extension.”

Interim Working Group
Summary
The work-related activities of the ApeCoin DAO should take place within decentralized
working groups. The future working groups will each have a specific focus area, budget
and mandate, aligned with the needs, mission statement, and guiding values of the ApeCoin
DAO.

This proposal will create an interim working group, tentatively named Working Group Zero,
with a conceptual mandate of operationalizing the DAO, empowering and rewarding community
members for domain expertise and work on DAO operations, while taking further steps
towards decentralizing the DAO in order to eliminate single points of failure in core DAO
operations.

This AIP establishes Working Group Zero as a 3-month trial under the specifications
listed above in, “Interim Working Group Functions Under 3-month Mandate” to assess the
effectiveness of the initial working group structure so we can iterate and improve as
necessary.

Key Stakeholders Eligible to Participate in Working Group Zero:
Summary
To ensure participants in the working group have the necessary prior experience and skin
in the game with ApeCoin DAO we propose the following eligibility criteria:

ApeCoin DAO members who have achieved Trust Level Status 2 (Member) or higher on ApeCoin
Discourse (the Official communication platform for DAO functions) on or before
December 21, 2022; or

$APE holders who have voted on at least 50% of the AIPs that have gone to Snapshot; or

$APE holders with 50,000 APE or more in voting power and have voted on at least one AIP
on or before December 21, 2022.

Stewards:
Summary
A total of seven members who serve within Working Group Zero on behalf of the DAO.

Stewards are responsible for:
a. Administrative oversight
b. Budgeting based on the needs of WG0 as approved by the Special Council
c. Reporting on all WG0 activities between the Special Council, the Administrators, and
the Community.

The APE Foundation Special Council will appoint three Stewards from amongst ApeCoin DAO
members who have achieved Trust Level Status 3 (Regular) on ApeCoin Discourse on or
before December 21, 2022, to lead the priority focus groups – Operations, Governance,
Communications.
a. The purpose of this appointment is to be able to have resources in place to hit the
ground running immediately upon the commencement of this interim mandate.
b. While the Special Council will appoint the first three Stewards, they will not be
eligible to vote in the election of the remaining four Stewards.

WG0 will elect the four remaining Stewards from amongst WG0 participants in a process to
be completed no later than January 14, 2023, detailed below.

Prior to taking their position as a Steward in WG0, all potential Stewards must pass AML
and KYC checks. These are the same checks that anyone running for Special Council had to
pass.

Special Council members cannot serve in the position of Steward.

Steward Elections:
Summary
To ensure the integrity of Steward elections, a Snapshot Space will be set up by the
authors of this AIP with the “Whitelist” strategy listed here: docs.snapshotx.xyz/protocol/voting-strategies#whitelist 11

Authors of this AIP will publish a post titled: “WG0: A Call for Contributors” in the
General category on Discourse which formally asks the community to register their
interest in either voting during WG0 elections, or becoming a Steward of WG0.
a. All members of WG0 are eligible to vote during the election window for Stewards, but
those members qualifying through the Trust Level 2 Discourse criteria will need to provide
their ETH Address to the author of “WG0: A Call for Contributors” in order to have their
address included in the Snapshot Space before January 7th, 2023.

Authors of this AIP will gather the ETH addresses in the following ways:
a. A historical snapshot of holders of APE on Dec 21st with 50,000 or more in voting
power who have voted on at least one AIP.
b. A historical snapshot of holders of APE on Dec 21st that have voted on 50% or more of
all AIPs.
c. The authors will request ETH addresses from all participants in Trust Level 2 or
above who wish to vote or run for Steward. This list will be used to verify that a user
registering their interest is eligible to participate and vote on the Steward elections.

Stewards may be removed at any time by:
a. A two-thirds majority vote among WG0, with the outcome of the vote communicated in the
ApeCoin DAO governance forum.
b. Stewards may step down from their position at any time by communicating their intention
to step down in the ApeCoin DAO governance forum.

In the event that a Steward is removed, steps down, or is unable to continue as a Steward,
for whatever reason, any temporary vacant positions will be filled by a contributor within
WG0, as voted on by WG0.

TIMELINE
Summary
If approved, this AIP shall go into effect January 4, 2023 for a time period of 3 months.

The three Stewards for the Operations, Governance, and Communications focus groups within
WG0 will be selected by the Special Council on January 4, 2023.

The window in which members of the community can register their interest in voting on
Steward elections and be registered as a voter on the Snapshot Space is January 6, 2023.

The election window for WG0 Stewards will be live on a TBA custom Snapshot Space
January 7, 2023 until January 14, 2023.

The RFP process and the future Cayman-based DAO administrator will be in place by
March 1, 2023 barring any unforeseen delays.

The monthly cost for DAO Administrative Functions under this AIP are as below. All
amounts are denominated in USD and payable in ApeCoin based on the previous 30-day average
exchange rate. Any expenses beyond what are described below will not be allocated to
Working Group Zero without approval of the Special Council:

OVERALL COSTS      |   Monthly Cost Estimate      | Total AIP Cost (3 Months)
                   | Jan 23   | Feb 23  | Mar 23  |    
Working Group Zero | $44,710  |$58,594  | $58,594 | $161,898
DAO Administrator  | $125,000 | $75,000 | $0      | $200,000
Total              | $169,710 | $133,594| $58,594 | $361,898


WGO Expense Breakout      |    Monthly Cost Estimate    | Total AIP Cost (3 Months)
                          | Jan 23  | Feb 23  | Mar 23  |      
Working Group Zero        | $34,710 | $48,594 | $48,594 | $131,898
WGO Operating Expenses**  | $10,000 | $10,000 | $10,000 | $30,000
Total                     |$44,710  | $58,594 | $58,594 | $161,898

*7 Stewards at $6942 each per month. 4 Stewards 1/2 pay for the first month due to
election process

**WGO Operating expenses will be used at Stewards' discretion to fulfill WGO mandate.
Anticipated expenses include: DAO
Administrator RFP costs including potential travel and lodging in Cayman. Day-to-day
operations support and services.
Infographic and communications asset production. Productivity tools e.g. Google Drive.
These budgets will first seek to compensate members of WGO who work on the day-to-day
operations, if the proper skillset isn't available within WGO,
Stewards will seek outside contractors.

Any and all budget items identified by WG0 bevond those outlined above will be
submitted by WGO Stewards to Special
Council for approval on a weekly basis

Compared to the costs of the previous version of this proposal – the above expenses
represent a savings to the DAO of $372,812 over the 3-month period. It’s important to
note that there will be other expenses related to WG0, but their allocation will be based
fully on specific requests made by WG0 Stewards and subject to the approval of the Special
Council.


AIP-200: Add “Abstain” option to Snapshot
Proposal Category: Process

Abstract
Adding the abstain option, in addition to “In Favor” and “Against” allows voters and
delegates to participate in voting without having to take a side.

Motivation
Adding abstain to voting allows users to vote on every proposal regardless of how they
feel about the proposal. This would also allow ApeCoin DAO delegates to maintain a high
voter participation rate.

Rationale
Many delegates and voters will simply not vote if they wish to vote against a proposal.
This weakens the data for # of voters and # of votes and makes our DAO look less active
than it really is.

Specifications
Add Abstain to Snapshot. Abstentions do not affect the outcome of the vote.

Steps to Implement
The relevant parties responsible for Discourse and Snapshot will add the Abstain option
to all future proposals in addition to “In Favor” and “Against”.

Timeline
As soon as administratively possible

Overall Cost
There is no overall cost to the DAO.


AIP-21: Staking Process with Caps (1x drop) - Process
Category: Process
Submitted by: giacolmo.eth

ABSTRACT
After the vote against AIP-4&5, the community had meaningful discussions on the ApeCoin
DAO forum and elsewhere. The essential feedback was that overall the framework was fine,
but lacked the key element of caps.

This AIP proposes a staking system for ApeCoin and the Bored Ape Yacht Club (BAYC) NFT
ecosystem: Bored Ape Yacht Club, Mutant Ape Yacht Club (MAYC), and Bored Ape Kennel Club
(BAKC). Staking participants will be able to stake ApeCoin and use the Bored Ape Yacht
Club ecosystem NFTs to receive ApeCoin from a preset pool over a set period of time.

MOTIVATION
Therefore, this AIP has the purpose to get to a conclusion, simply proposing again the
same previous AIP-4 plus the caps (1x the ApeCoin drop), to allow the DAO move forward
without other contention points.

Staking models should seed the growth of the related token and NFT ecosystem. They can do
this by expanding the audience while incentivizing early adopters and existing ecosystem
participants. One core goal of this AIP is to ensure that the staked BAYC ecosystem NFTs
remain tradable regardless of a specific NFT’s status in relation to a stake, so that the
growth of the ecosystem isn’t constrained by the lockup of staked assets. This allows new
users to always have the opportunity to participate in staking after the launch of any
staking period (each, a “Period”), by continuing to grant access to any BAYC ecosystem
NFTs.

The pools will be set up to specifically recognize the varied assets within the
ecosystem, with a total of four distinct pools being active during each staking period.

RATIONALE
As a first step to ApeCoin becoming the preferred token of web3, early NFT adopters and
existing and potential ecosystem participants should be incentivized.

This AIP is built around incentivizing existing and potential holders to engage in the
ecosystem, one of the several ways of additional utility added to ApeCoin and BAYC
ecosystem NFTs.

SPECIFICATIONS
Qualifications to Stake:

The eligible ecosystem assets for staking or committing to staking pools are ApeCoin,
BAYC, MAYC, and BAKC NFTs.
ApeCoin can be staked directly up to any amount during the Period, but if attributed
to an NFT can be staked up to the following caps for each NFT during the Initial Staking
Period:
BAYC NFT: 10,094 ApeCoin
MAYC NFT: 2,042 ApeCoin
BAKC NFT: 856 ApeCoin
The caps for Staking Periods following the Initial Staking Period will be decided with
a proposal to be approved via the ApeCoin DAO before the start of each following Staking
Period, once the Staking Pool Allocations for each following Staking Period have been
determined. Waiting for or in the absence of an affirmative vote, the caps for each
following Staking Period are the same as the previous Staking Period.
Users can commit any number of BAYC, MAYC, and/or BAKC NFTs to the incentive pool during
the Period. Committing an NFT is the act of attributing ApeCoin for a specific NFT, which
then allows that NFT to earn and claim incentives, as long as the ApeCoin remains
attributed. Think of it as if the NFT is a safety deposit key. The NFT provides access to
the staked ApeCoin tokens previously attributed to it.
A BAKC cannot be committed on its own, regardless of any direct ApeCoin being staked. It
must always be paired 1:1 with a BAYC or MAYC NFT in order to be initially committed.
This requires ApeCoin to be attributed to each of the NFTs.
Once the BAYC or MAYC is paired with a BAKC, the BAYC or MAYC cannot be paired with
another BAKC, unless the original BAKC that was paired is uncommitted to the incentive
pool.

ApeCoin Token Lock and Claim:
Accumulated ApeCoin can be claimed at any time without the need to also claim staked
ApeCoin and without affecting the commitment status of an NFT.
All accrued ApeCoin generated from a stake is claimed at once, when initiating a claim.
The staked ApeCoin can be claimed, along with its accrued ApeCoin, directly by the
original staking wallet. However, these are two separate transactions.
Staked ApeCoin is still valid to be used to vote in the ApeCoin DAO.
To claim the accrued ApeCoin from a committed NFT, the same NFT needs to be present in
the wallet to claim. If another user has an NFT that is committed to a stake, they can
make the claim even if they didn’t make the original NFT commitment. Think of this as
the NFT being the key to access the staking incentives.
Users can stake ApeCoin and commit NFTs to the staking pool at any point during the
Period, but the duration of an active stake directly affects the accrued ApeCoin, due
to the time-weight combination incentive structure.
The NFTs can be uncommitted from the staking pool by the NFT holder at any point in time.

ApeCoin Accrual:
The ApeCoin that can be accumulated from staked ApeCoin, or any ApeCoin attributed to
NFTs, is dependent on the amount of ApeCoin staked by the user, the duration of the
stake, and the total amount of staked ApeCoin in the relevant staking pool.

Maintained NFT Tradability:

Only ApeCoin is ever staked. The owner of a specific NFT at the claim point is able to
claim the accrued ApeCoin tokens attributed to that NFT, even if they were not the one
who originally initiated the staking commitment.
Although tradable, committed NFTs cannot be recommitted, unless a holder has previously
uncommitted the NFT.
The Foundation’s website UI will be updated to have an option to enter the BAYC, MAYC,
or BAKC token ID and check the following:
Is the MAYC, BAYC, or BAKC currently committed to a staking pool?
Does the BAYC or MAYC have a committed BAKC companion NFT?
NFTs that are currently committed will have an updated status in a UI that serves as a
notification for potential buyers, so they’re aware of the commitment status, and the
amount of ApeCoin that NFT has earned, before purchasing.

STEPS TO IMPLEMENT
Smart Contract:
Development of the Staking Process smart contract
Smart contract security audit and QA
A proposal to be drafted and approved via the ApeCoin DAO for the allocation of ApeCoin
for Staking Process, and the duration of the Period.
Website (Design and Implementation):
Staking and unstaking UI, for both direct ApeCoin stake and commitment of NFTs to stake
Status of staking pools: amount remaining
Accrual rate: current accrued, current weight
Claim: unclaimed ApeCoin balance
Market Tools:
NFT search and staking status
NFT ApeCoin commitment
NFT ApeCoin commitment lockup status

TIMELINE
The estimated time frame is 12–16 weeks.

OVERALL COST
$300,000 – $500,000
Estimate includes smart contract engineering, full stack engineering, UI/UX design,
Project Management, QA, and auditing services.

Foundation Authority: Approval of this Proposal authorizes the Foundation to exercise
discretion to effect the purposes and intent of this Proposal, including by spending
additional amounts and approving a different development timeline than set forth in this
Proposal. However, expenses in connection with this Proposal may not exceed twice the
estimated amount without additional approval in accordance with the Foundation’s
governance process.


AIP-22: Staking Pool Allocation Reloaded - Ecosystem Fund Allocation
Category: Ecosystem Fund Allocation
Submitted by: giacolmo.eth

ABSTRACT
Coherently with AIP-21 Staking Process with Caps (1x drop), this AIP wishes to simplify
and move forward, effectively proposing again the previous AIP-5, which was voted
against uniquely for the absence of caps in the Staking Process.

This proposal presents the total ApeCoin allocation for the staking pools and the
three-year duration of this staking period.

MOTIVATION
The creation of a staking process for ApeCoin as outlined in AIP-21 is designed to work
with varied ApeCoin incentive pools and period lengths. This AIP presents the initial
staking pool and staking duration.

RATIONALE
As stated in AIP-21, in order for ApeCoin to become the preferred token of web3, early
NFT adopters and existing and potential ecosystem participants should be incentivized
through participation in activities benefitting the APE Ecosystem.

The initial ApeCoin staking period and staking pool size proposed here is designed to
incentivize participation in the ecosystem over the staking period, regardless of
whether a participant stakes ApeCoin alone, or modifies that stake by committing BAYC
ecosystem NFTs.

KEY TERMS
Staking Pools: The total ApeCoin pools that participants can earn from.
Staking Pool Type: The pool specifically assigned to a digital asset class; there are
four in total.
Staking Period: Each period is 12 months.
Staking Pool Allocations: The total amount of ApeCoin allocated to each Staking Pool
Type per period.
Total Staking Period: A total of three (3) years.
Initial Staking Period: The first 12-month period of staking.
Pool Distribution: The spread of the staking allocation assigned across the period.
Incentive Distribution Curve: The schedule of ApeCoin allocated for incentives per
quarter.

SPECIFICATIONS
Total ApeCoin Staking Pool: 17.5% of the total ApeCoin supply to be distributed over the
Total Staking Period of three (3) years. This will be funded by the Ecosystem Fund.
Staking Pool Periods:
Year One: 100,000,000 ApeCoin tokens (10.0% of the total ApeCoin supply)
Year Two: 50,000,000 ApeCoin tokens (5.0% of the total ApeCoin supply)
Year Three: 25,000,000 ApeCoin tokens (2.5% of the total ApeCoin supply)

Note: Unclaimed ApeCoin remains in the contract indefinitely until it is claimed. It
cannot be recalled by the contract owner.

Staking Pool Types:
ApeCoin Staking Pool
BAYC Staking Pool
MAYC Staking Pool
BAKC Staking Pool

Staking Pool Allocations:

Initial Staking Period:
ApeCoin Staking Pool: 30,000,000 ApeCoin Tokens
BAYC Staking Pool: 47,105,000 ApeCoin Tokens
MAYC Staking Pool: 19,060,000 ApeCoin Tokens
BAKC Staking Pool: 3,835,000 ApeCoin Tokens
Note: The combined Staking Pool Allocations for the Initial Staking Period adds up to
100,000,000 ApeCoin tokens, or 10% of total ApeCoin Supply.
The Staking Pool Allocations for Staking Periods following the Initial Staking Period
will be determined by the market prices of the BAYC, MAYC, and BAKC NFTs. An average
price during Q4 of the previous Staking Period will determine the ratio allocated to
each of the Staking Pool types. The ApeCoin Staking Pool will remain constant at 30%.
Note: The BAKC Staking pool can only be utilized if a BAKC NFT is being paired 1:1 with
a BAYC or MAYC NFT.

Incentive Distribution Curve
Staking Pool Period | Period | Incentive Distribution Curve | Total Staking Pool Allocation across Staking Pool Types
Year 1 (100MM Tokens) | First 91 days | 35.00% | 35,000,000
                     | Day 92 to 183 | 30.00% | 30,000,000
                     | Day 184 to 274 | 20.00% | 20,000,000
                     | Day 275 to 365 | 15.00% | 15,000,000

Year 2 (50M Tokens) | First 91 days | 27.50% | 13,750,000
                    | Day 92 to 183 | 25.00% | 12,500,000
                    | Day 184 to 274 | 25.00% | 12,500,000
                    | Day 275 to 365 | 22.50% | 11,250,000

Year 3 (25M Tokens) | First 91 davs | 30.00% | 7,500,000
                    | Day 92 to 183 | 25.00% | 6,250,000
                    | Day 184 to 274 | 25.00% | 6,250,000
                    | Day 275 to 365 | 20.00% | 5,000,000


STEPS TO IMPLEMENT
Upon deployment of the Staking smart contract on Ethereum, the total allocation of
ApeCoin for this initiative will be sent to this smart contract.

TIMELINE
Upon completion and deployment of AIP-21.

OVERALL COST
As the development of the staking contract is complete prior to this AIP becoming active,
the deployment of the ApeCoin isn’t an additional cost. This is presenting the pool to
be utilized only.


AIP-36: Guy Oseary as ApeCoin Representative - Ecosystem Fund Allocation
Category: Ecosystem Fund Allocation
Author: @guyoseary

ABSTRACT
This document proposes to make me, Guy Oseary, a representative of ApeCoin. This role
will make it my job to support ApeCoin through impactful partnerships and initiatives.
I will not receive any payment for my services.

MOTIVATION
I remember the very moment that web3 “clicked” for me when my friend Nick Adler helped me
understand its potential, starting with NFTs as a breakthrough for artists’ rights.
That’s all I needed to hear to jump all into the web3 ocean.

The opportunity in web3 is immediate and massive, especially for anything championed by
an engaged, creative, passionate community. ApeCoin embodies all of that.

I believe that the more utility there is for ApeCoin, the more value it has, and the more
it has the potential to break new ground for web3 and culture as a whole. Partnerships
are instrumental in making that happen.

I’ve spent my career working hard to get artists and brands the best, most fair deals
possible — deals that compensate them, empower them, and protect them and their work.
That’s what I want to do for ApeCoin and the community. As a representative, I will work
to find and create opportunities that build the brand and ecosystem and bring ApeCoin to
everyday life, everywhere.

Web3 is more than just digital. The coin that will power your metaverse experience will
also be powering your real-life experience. You could earn ApeCoin in the metaverse and
use it as payment to attend a show by your favorite artist. Pay for a hotel with it one
day and meet your friends there virtually. We are at the very early days here. Keeping
ApeCoin solely in the metaverse would limit it.

The request is for an allocation of 1% of the Ecosystem Fund for me to spend
strategically on opportunities and partnerships that benefit the brand and community.
These initiatives could include – but are not limited to – events, partnerships, and
projects across gaming, TV, film, and music. To execute on this successfully, it is
important for me to be able to engage in individual negotiations discreetly, driving more
favorable terms and costs that result in higher ROI.

RATIONALE
To promote a diverse and self-sustaining ecosystem, ApeCoin should be so ubiquitous that
it’s part of mainstream culture. It’s my core belief that ApeCoin can lead the way in
bringing more people, companies, and brands to web3, and that we can do so in an
inclusive way that reflects the ApeCoin DAO values.

A LITTLE ABOUT ME
My experience in working with brands across entertainment and tech allows me to be
uniquely positioned to make strategic decisions and leverage my network to close
exceptional deals for ApeCoin.

I am an entrepreneur, tech investor, and talent manager. As a teen, I started my career
as an A&R executive and later as a partner in Maverick Records. We sold over 100 million
albums before selling the company to Warner Music.

I’ve been working with and supporting artists ever since — for over 30 years now. My
passion and personal interests over the last few decades have placed me at the
intersection of entertainment and tech. I’ve been investing with my partner and friend
Ashton Kutcher, who is also my co-founder in A-Grade Investments, Sound Ventures, and
Sound Ventures Blockchain. Our early-stage investments include Airbnb, Uber, Spotify,
Calm, Robinhood, Gitlab, Duolingo, Superrare, Opensea, and many others.

I am also currently working with or a partner with some of the best NFT talent, including
Bored Ape Yacht Club, Mutant Ape Yacht Club, CryptoPunks, Meebits, World of Women,
Sandbox, Pixel Vault, Beeple, and 10KTF.

Empowering artists and protecting them from day 1 has been a priority for me. Today, one
of the most powerful tools to enable that is web3. I was fortunate to be one of the
contributors to ApeCoin. Like you, I was inspired by this amazing community and I’ve been
supporting it from the moment I understood how far it can go. I want it to succeed and
I’m incentivized to do all that I can to ensure that it does.

SPECIFICATIONS
Up to 1% of the Ecosystem Fund as a budget for me to utilize on behalf of the APE
Foundation.

This will only be spent on purchases and deals that directly benefit the APE Foundation.
Any ROI gained from deals I make will go back into the Ecosystem Fund.
Any ApeCoin from this budget that is not used during the specified period will be
returned to the Ecosystem Fund.
I will not receive any payment for my services.
I will consult with the Board about potential deals.
Details on all purchases and deals that I make will be made fully available to the
ApeCoin DAO community after the fact via quarterly transparency reports that detail how
much was spent, on what, and why.
This is separate from the budgets allocated in AIP-3.

STEPS TO IMPLEMENT
Cartan to set up a separate Coinbase account and transfer 1% of the Ecosystem Fund.
Set up the account so that one of the ApeCoin DAO Board members must approve
transactions.
Execute commercial services agreement with Ape Foundation.
TIMELINE
This would go into effect immediately if this AIP passes and would last until the next
fiscal calendar closes at the end of 2023.

OVERALL COST
Up to 1% of the Ecosystem Fund, from when the proposal passes through Dec 31, 2023.


AIP-66: ApeCoin Newsletter - Ecosystem Fund Allocation

Abstract
We believe that an ApeCoin newsletter that is developed and distributed by the community
would be a beneficial source of information for members of the DAO. The newsletter could
be developed on Substack, Ghost, MailChimp or a similar platform. It should be an
aggregation of ApeCoin specific ecosystem news, AIPs, conversations, opportunities and
content sourced from Discourse, Discord, Twitter and other internet destinations. The
newsletter should promote and educate all things related to the ApeCoin DAO.

Motivation
The motivation behind this idea is to help the community develop trusted sources of
information from decentralized channels and provide benefits beyond a single information
source.

Rationale
We know of multiple ad hoc channels across the internet and it would be great to provide
some funding to them so they can expand their reach and dedicate more resources to
spreading ApeCoin ecosystem and DAO news.

Specifications
The person / team implementing this AIP would need a platform to collect email addresses
and distribute a branded newsletter. Some platforms they could use are Substack, Ghost,
MailChimp or something similar.

It would be cool if the chosen team could implement some functionality whereby
subscribers would be required to sign a message (WalletConnect, MetaMask) with an address
that has at least one ApeCoin in it.

The ApeCoin Foundation will not be approving the content of these newsletters, we believe
the community is best positioned to decide what content is best for itself.

Steps to Implement
This AIP will go through the same approval process as all other AIPs. It will start with
this post and the 7 day comment period, we will then draft a proposal for the ApeCoin
Foundation for further analysis, it will go to the Special Council for review and finally
the community will vote on it via SnapShot.

If this AIP is passed, we will start a new thread where teams can nominate themselves to
take on this project. Please include a link to any social media or communication channels
you currently operate and how big your follower base is. We will select the top 3
nominations using the following criteria:

How many likes your comment has by users that have been on Discourse for longer than 5 days.

The team(s) selected to participate in this AIP will be subject to agreeing to an ApeCoin
Grant Agreement.

Timeline
Over the course of one year, every month that you deliver two newsletters
(every other week), the ApeCoin Foundation will send you 400 ApeCoin.

Overall Cost
For each team that is selected, the ApeCoin Foundation will send 400 ApeCoin per month.
Criteria each month will be two newsletters distributed to their subscribers. The ApeCoin
Foundation will validate every month that the team has sent two newsletters.

We suggest capping the time for this idea to one year. At this point, the newsletter may
be continued via a new AIP. Hopefully, teams will have built up a large enough audience
at the end of one year that they can have a self-sustaining business model.

Proposals submitted to the AIP Ideas category can be vague, incomplete ideas. Topics
submitted here are not required to be submitted as a formal AIP Draft Template, however,
you may still use the template 20 if you wish.


AIP-89: Improved delegation experience
Proposal Category: Process Proposal
Authors: @maariab @bwags

Abstract:
This AIP improves the delegation experience by adding an application process and allowing
users to easily delegate and re-delegate directly from the ApeCoin site.

Motivation:

Delegation is a common mechanism used by DAOs to ensure better representation and
participation within their communities. Gitcoin, Compound, and ENS have all implemented
delegation mechanisms, ensuring the DAO represents the interests of members who can’t
personally consider and vote on each proposal.

The motivation for this proposal is to improve the UX for delegating ApeCoin, as well as
provide a better process for users to identify delegates aligned with their interests.
While anyone will be welcome to self-delegate and vote independently, we know not all
$APE holders can commit to take an active role in the APE ecosystem. An improved
delegation system will allow the individuals and groups who want to take an active role
in APE governance to have their voices heard.

Rationale:
Many $APE holders don’t have the time to participate in governance and would prefer to
delegate their votes to a peer. The current Snapshot delegation system is opaque and
unhelpful because users need to know the wallet address of the delegate, and there is
no easy way to identify how the delegates will govern.

We propose creating a dedicated site for delegation. Delegates will answer a few basic
questions about how they would govern, and delegators will be able to filter and search
through their responses to find a delegate aligned with their interests.

Delegation increases vote counts and community feedback, and also holds governance
participators accountable.

Specifications:
Will create a dedicated site for delegating or re-delegating ApeCoin
New UX will make it easy for holders to filter/search through delegates and for delegates
to campaign
Will also create a DAO leaderboard for tracking participation / delegation stats
Will build as open source tooling for other DAOs to leverage
ApeCoin.com 12 will link to the delegation site (TBD - but will work with Cartan and
the DAO to figure out the best solution)
v1 requires full delegation of votes, while v2 will implement partial delegation options

There are three improvements made in this proposal: 1) Process For Delegate Applications;
2) Dedicated UI/UX for Delegation; 3) Creation of Governance Leaderboard; and 4)
Open Sourcing the tech

1. Process For Delegate Applications
Candidates who seek to campaign for delegation will connect their wallet to the delegation
site and complete an application (see appendix).
Holders do not need to self-delegate in order to vote on proposals. Delegation is only for
holders who do not want to vote.

2. Dedicated UI/UX for Delegation
A site or subdomain will be created where holders will be able to view all the candidates
who completed delegate applications and click through their profile to read their
applications and voting history
Users can use this site to delegate or redelegate at any point in time.
Candidate profiles will initially be shown in a random order, but can be filtered in the
following ways:
Delegated vote count
Voting history
Recently applied

Delegates who complete applications will rank higher in the UX, but users will be able to
delegate to any wallet address.
These updates to the delegation experience should make it easier for holders to delegate,
and should indirectly increase voter participation in the DAO. It also creates a
democratic system by which any community member can have a meaningful impact on governance,
regardless of their financial status or how much APE they own.

These updates to the delegation experience should make it easier for holders to delegate,
and should indirectly increase voter participation in the DAO. It also creates a democratic
system by which any community member can have a meaningful impact on governance, regardless
of their financial status or how much APE they own.

3. Creation of Governance Leaderboard
Leaderboard will aggregate voting data and allow users to filter through various views
including by:
Proposals
Delegates
Voters
We can aggregate voting information via Boardroom.io 6’s governance SDK and API or other
community tools that have been built.
The team plans to leverage existing tooling when possible, but will prioritize safety and
security when selecting partners or building in-house.

4. Open Sourcing
Delegation system will be open sourced
We strongly believe that the NFT and crypto ecosystems benefit from working together and
by open sourcing this tool, we give teams the opportunity to focus on building new things
for the space.

Steps to Implement:

Funds will be managed from a multi-sig at 0x10836A2Ba38cCb9CAE3b5624FC5A7e1389AF61f3
managed by maaria.eth and bwags.eth
Timeline:

The estimated time frame to build a basic v1 is 4 weeks
More complex functionality like delegating custodied tokens or partial delegation will
likely take another 4-8 weeks depending on how complex the architecture and tooling ends
up being.

Team:
Maaria will act as the project manager along with Brian Wagner. Maaria will not receive
payment for this role.
Brian Wagner is an engineer who has built data pipelines/APIs, iOS SDKs and apps, lots of
React web apps. He founded Campground and was the lead product engineer at a stealth
startup prior to that. He has run a lot of web3 experiments, including making the gm app,
being a core team member of ConstitutionDAO, and blockchain dev for Yolo Dice 1 and their
upcoming Everworlds game.
Additional 1-2 developers, 1 designer, and a PM to be hired after proposal passes
(have already identified and started conversations with resources here → community
members can also nominate themselves to help with the build)

Overall Cost:
Up to $150,000 APE pending milestones being met

$50,000 APE funded upon proposal passing
$50,000 APE funded upon launch of v1 delegation UI, which will include the delegate
application, delegate discovery interface, delegation ability, and a basic DAO dashboard
$50,000 APE funded upon launch of v2 delegation which will include more streamlined
UI/UX flows, advanced leaderboard, partial delegation (if technically feasible and
reasonable to build), and delegation from custodial wallets (if technically feasible and
reasonable to build)

APPENDIX: APECoin DAO Delegate Applications
After connecting their wallets to the delegation site, users will be directed to answer
the following application questions:

ENS name or wallet address:
Reasons for wanting to be a delegate:
Web3 qualifications / skills:
What voters can expect of you:

Delegates who submit an ENS name must set their Primary ENS Name to the ENS name chosen
Do this at app.ens.domains 2 > My Account.


AIP-98: A Community-First ApeCoin DAO Marketplace Proposal

After releasing our v1 marketplace proposal 72last week, we took a step back to digest
MagicEden’s competing proposal and get feedback from the community. The last couple weeks
has been inspiring, meeting new ApeCoin community members, and listening to feedback.
Below you will find our updated draft, including a summary of the feedback received,
how we’re adjusting, and why we’re the right builders for the job.

At the heart of this proposal is our desire to build for the community, and embrace Web3
values of decentralization via composability, non-extraction, and interoperability.

Composability means parts of a system can be replaced and recombined so you can easily
replace us as the ApeCoin DAO marketplace front end without impacting users.
Non-extraction means not charging more than you need, we take just enough to cover
operating costs and keep building so we can do our best to return value to creators.
Interoperability means systems ability to use available data. By leveraging Reservoir0x
we can both aggregate the most liquidity and make data available for aggregators and
other user applications, something MagicEden has blocked on its Solana marketplace.

Abstract
A community marketplace is a natural next step for the ApeCoin DAO. A successful
community marketplace will: drive adoption of $APE through $APE listings, drive traffic
to the ApeCoin DAO (apecoin.com 13), and decrease fees to community members by building a
APE-native marketplace with rich ape-specific user experiences. In order to compete this
marketplace must be cost competitive with fees in-line with or lower than competitors
like X2Y2.

Our marketplace will host all Yugaverse projects in a single marketplace UI, with
dramatically reduced fees, keeping $$ in the BAYC ecosystem and improving the marketplace
experience for both buyers and sellers.

While we have a lot to share, some notable key features of the marketplace are the
following:

Leveraging @reservoir0x’s open-source, on-chain orderbook to increase openness and
composability.
Aggregated orders from major marketplaces (OpenSea, LooksRare, X2Y2, Sudoswap, and more)
to maintain a strong bridge to the rest of the NFT market.
Native sales in $APE with no fees to users buying and selling in $APE.
A .5% marketplace fee on $ETH listings and a .25% fee in $APE. .25% of all fees will be
sent to a community-held multi-sig wallet on a monthly cadence. The use of funds can then
be decided in a separate AIP. (more on why later) The .25% from $ETH will be converted to
$APE and sent to the wallet.
Development of contextual and ape-specific marketplace functionality, such as integration
of key BAYC metadata, relation to the Otherside, and more.

About Us
I’m Zach and prior to starting Snag Solutions 25I was an early leader at DoorDash.
I built our early pickup and ads businesses and helped merchants like Chipotle,
Papa Johns, and Panera, run their online ordering, and defined an early crypto strategy
in my final months.

I red-pilled into web3 last year, and fell in love with NFTs. BAYC was my first big
purchase, and I’m a BAYC/MAYC/BAKC/Otherside holder. As a holder and early believer this
project is not just a business opportunity for me, but a passion project. I see a massive
opportunity to keep $$ in the BAYC ecosystem, reduce fraud, and drive $APE adoption.

My co-founder Jason (Twitter 31/ LinkedIn 15) was our first merchant engineering manager
at DoorDash and built both our early payments product and the carousels DoorDash still
uses today. He’s one of the best developers I’ve ever worked with and loves to build for
creators.

We also have three advisors, all deeply engaged BAYC/MAYC members:

TropoFarmer (Twitter 11)
NFTPres (Twitter 17)
Champtgram (Twitter 17)

What We’ve Heard From The Community

We’ve spoken with a number of $APE community members over the last several weeks. There
are four major topics that surfaced from our conversations. If you think we are missing
anything at all, please comment so we can discuss.

The $APE community wants to embrace Web3 values of decentralization, non-extraction, and
composability. In a dream scenario many would want to build and run the marketplace
themselves, but recognize this isn’t feasible today.

An ApeCoin DAO marketplace must drive value for the community, but because the DAO isn’t
legally set up to accept funds this is difficult to accomplish. There are four main
proposals:
Burn $APE to drive token value through scarcity.
Fund marketplace incentives for marketplace users via tokenomics.
Send $APE to a donor advised fund that custodies the funds in $APE for a set time before
donating.
Route money to a new ApeCoin sub-DAO that controls the funding, and is still governed by
$APE token holders. This eliminates ApeCoin DAO legal complexity.

The volatility of $APE makes it a challenging currency to list high-priced NFT’s in due
to arbitrage opportunities, but use of $APE should still be encouraged.
DAO members would prefer not to choose a single marketplace at this time without enabling
competition. Further, there’s some concern about use of dedicated URL’s as likely to lead
to more fraud.

The volatility of $APE makes it a challenging currency to list high-priced NFT’s in due
to arbitrage opportunities, but use of $APE should still be encouraged.

DAO members would prefer not to choose a single marketplace at this time without enabling
competition. Further, there’s some concern about use of dedicated URL’s as likely to lead
to more fraud.

How we’re responding

1. We’re partnering with @reservoir0x to leverage their open and on-chain orderbook.
This comes with four key advantages:
Order data is stored on Arweave, unlocking benefits from storing orders on-chain without
the cost. This enables free listings and offers like users expect, but without reliance
on a centralized orderbook managed in a private database. This also allows for
permissionless data availability so users can build tools and data visualizations using
on-chain data while removing a key centralization vector.

Reservoir aggregates liquidity from across the ecosystem including orders from OpenSea,
LooksRare, X2Y2, and more and enables order types that are unavailable in other
marketplace stacks, like trait-based bidding. We’ll innovate on the BAYC marketplace
front end while they build the richest on-chain NFT data repository enabling us to pull
in novel features as they ship.

Since the Reservoir orderbook is on-chain (Arweave), the marketplace could easily be
replaced if the community is dissatisfied with no loss of liquidity. For this reason,
we are applying for a 6-month lease on a dedicated URL pointing to our hosted experience,
and will apply for 6-12 month extensions following. This creates pressure for us to add
value, if the DAO ever wants to replace us you can do it without impacting listings.

We’ll also partner with Reservoir0x to enable ERC-20 purchasing, since this functionality
is already native to Reservoir, we’re eliminating our $50K request for funding so there’s
no cost to the DAO.

2. Due to lack of an obvious mechanism to add value to the DAO we’re reducing our fees.
Our initial proposal increased fees to fund payments directly to the DAO treasury as a
new revenue stream, but because the DAO is set up as a Cayman foundation it can’t accept
funding without risking being ruled a security (for now). With this in mind we reduced
fees to .5% on ETH and .25% on $APE with .25% of each transaction sent to a gnosis
multi-sig as $APE for future community use.

Total fees: .25% on listings in $APE, and .5% for ETH listings, with .25% of each
transaction going to the DAO so we make .25% only on $ETH transactions.
The multi-sig will be controlled by 7 reputable & doxxed community members with use of
funds to be voted on at a later date.

3. Because of strongly divided feedback across burning, incentives, and charitable
contributions, we propose starting the funding stream immediately and tabling the topic
for a separate AIP. This approach maintains an incentive to list in $APE via our 0% fee,
and we can then explore solutions to enable listing in $ETH or $USDC with payment in
$APE.

We’re open to supporting any path chosen by the community, but want to give the DAO time
to make a decision on use of funds. We’re keeping our fees low so if the DAO wants to
increase the seller fee on either $ETH or $APE transactions.

If there’s overwhelming support for the a single approach we can pivot, but our current
POV is that use of funding is a critical DAO topic that should be tackled separately.

4. We’re revising our proposal to request EITHER a dedicated URL ie.
marketplace.apecoin.com 29 AND/OR a dedicated link from the ApeCoin DAO homepage. If the
community prefers to select multiple marketplaces we’re open to being one of severa
URL’s or links available. That said, we believe a single marketplace will be best for
the community so we don’t split attention and liquidity.

Why Snag Solutions is the Right Partner and Where We’ll Go From Here

1. We’re experienced marketplace builders who share a vision of helping creators and
communities capture value by unbundling NFT marketplaces. Our roadmap improves upon
the project-specific buying experience via a multi-collection UI, linking items across
collections, improving token metadata, and building social tooling.

2. We’re building project-specific marketplaces with creators and their communities in
mind. Everything we’re building is project-specific. We plan to build creator first
tools like private sales with no fees except for creator royalties, and can create a
separate AIP to introduce this feature and help limit scams when ready.

3. We’ll keep building for the ApeCoin community and collecting feedback but will focus
on the NFT marketplace without touching adjacent revenue streams and marketplace
categories like IP licensing or merch marketplaces leaving opportunities for other
$APE community builders. Our .25% $ETH fee will fund ongoing development and we’ll
use this as a key proof case for first party marketplaces.

Finally, while fees are not the only thing that matters, we want to reiterate that we
have a market ready product that we’re prepared to invest in at dramatically lower
rates. Why would we let the leading Solana marketplace charge a full percent more for
a similar, more centralized, offering?

More importantly, why would anyone use that marketplace with a 1%+ fee over X2Y2?

$ETH fees:
ME: 1.5%, .25% discount if BAYC/MAYC
SNAG: .25% fee + .25% burn

$APE fees:
ME: 1%, .25% discount if BAYC MAYC
SNAG: .25% fee + .25% burn

So to summarize:
We’ll build a native marketplace that hosts all Yugaverse collections with .5% on $ETH
listings and .25% fees on $APE listings with an open order book solution and aggregated
liquidity. .25% of each transaction will be earmarked for the DAO, and we’ll apply for
renewal in 6-months.

All $APE fees will be routed to a community held multi-sig with use of funds to be voted
on in a future AIP. This gives the DAO more time to determine how to best utilize new
funding sources while taking $APE off of the market in the interim.

We’re experienced marketplace builders, established community members, and flexible
partners incentivized to drive value for the DAO. We’ll also never host a competitive
marketplace hosting Yuga collections or silo marketplace liquidity to capture value.

We’re entirely focused on and committed to innovating on the front end experience to
make sure the ApeCoin DAO marketplace is the go-to destination for Yugaverse NFTs.

Product Specifications | Overview of Snag Tech Stack

Front end libraries - Next.js, Vercel
Reservoir0x’s aggregated liquidity and open-source + on-chain order book.
Light backend for social features like user profiles

Next Steps & Timeline:

Our partnership with Reservoir0x lets us to launch as soon as we complete the audit
process.
We’ll complete an audit prior to supporting this level of scale and want to enable
the community to determine the best auditor for the job. We’re happy to do the work
to find someone reputable who fits into our timeline, or can source from the community.

Overall Cost:
No cost to the DAO.

Marketing commitments from ApeCoin DAO including:
A 6-month lease on a dedicated URL (ie. marketplace.apecoin.com 29) pointed to our
hosted experience AND/OR a link to our URL from the ApeCoin homepage. We prefer both,
but will take either depending on board and community feedback.
Twitter post(s) at launch

Closing Thoughts & Helpful Links
ApeCoin DAO is uniquely positioned to change the current dynamics of NFT marketplaces
where the majority of value is captured by two marketplace providers. The $APE community
deserves a dedicated marketplace for Yuga projects that is built with the collections in
mind and minimally extractive. We can build this future alongside the community without
concern of misaligned incentives stemming from a separate marketplace Ethereum marketplace.

Finally, a note on Magic Eden’s proposal, I’m personally supportive of any of the three
other marketplace proposals and trust the community will see the centralization risk
associated with a ME marketplace.

We look forward to hearing your feedback! Please comment or reach out via twitter 79if
interested in chatting, and I’m excited to join any Ape-led spaces to share the message
in the coming weeks.


AIP-88 : Earn ApeCoin Revenue Through Our No-Code NFT Drop Platform & Launchpad

Abstract
We want to become a launch pad to help make ApeCoin NFT project ideas come to life.
Through our established no-code, self-serve smart contract platform, NiftyKit, anyone can
launch a project on our platform in just minutes, unlocking accessibility for the next
generation of NFT creators. By building deep integration with ApeCoin, we can unlock new
levels of utility for the token, making it the foundational coin for the creator economy.

Motivation
NFTs now play a more significant role in adopting the core ideas of web3 and blockchain.
It’s become a crucial entry point through which communities and cultures from around the
world explore, earn from, and adopt the web3 lifestyle, together.

Sadly, the tools suck to get NFT projects off the ground, plus developers are hard to work
with. Good luck finding one you can trust that won’t ghost you on launch day or steal your
private keys. Need a technical arm to help you save time launching your project with $APE?
We can help.

Our team has extensive web3 and web2 experience, and we’ve been providing value through
our company NiftyKit 49 for more than a year. We have worked with prominent creators like
Takashi Murakami and Gucci (recently started accepting $APE) in addition to many
independent smaller artists who have generated over 7,300 ETH since the beginning of the
year through their NFT drops executed on our current self-serve platform.

NFT drops can be months in the making, and if you only have this one shot at launching,
you better make sure your plan is tight before you drop and look stupid. With NiftyKit,
there is no need to reinvent the wheel when creating NFTs. We will provide a standardized
solution that helps onboard users to ApeCoin by providing battle-tested tools.

Yuga and the Improbable team expect us (the community) to help build Otherside with them
from the bottom-up, so we have a responsibility to be ready to dive-in face-first when
Otherside goes live.

Accepting this AIP supports the first step towards how we’ll use NFTs to connect
different communities IRL and in Otherside to raise awareness for our DAO and
members.

Adding the ability to drop NFTs in ApeCoin will also help increase:
Unique wallets created with ApeCoin
ApeCoins earned by Creators
Number of ApeCoin NFT drops
Number of AIPs submitted to Discourse
Number of NFTs entering the Otherside
Number of Otherside API builds
Number of ApeCoin members ready for Otherside on day one

Receiving a grant from the ApeCoin DAO will help us add a scalable and secure way for any
creator or brand to launch an ApeCoin NFT drop in just minutes instead of weeks or months.

Empowering creators with the best-in-class tools will enable our community to become an
accelerator and launchpad for NFT projects with the support and backing of the most robust
bluechip holders in the ecosystem.

Rationale
It’s no secret. The Ape community is getting a marketplace - Agora - and we know ApeCoin
will power Otherside. Buying $APE is the best entry point for anyone wanting to
participate; no Ape, Mutant, or Deed is required. Yes, you can buy and hold $APE and wait
for it to the moon, but what if you had a way to accept ApeCoin for goods and services
you can offer as NFTs through drops?

You know…investing in yourself, launching your project, or collaborating with a team
that can help you get off the ground. Yes, NFTs are perfect for PFPs, but NFTs can be
much more. These drops can be generative art, membership access tokens, or tokens for
things like ticketing, gated access, or exclusive content. 3D files and objects can
represent NFTs; the same goes for audio and video. NFTs are not just JPEGs.

The possibilities for the future are endless. You do not have to be a “crypto artist” to
do this. Got a business? LFG. Work for an innovative company? LFG. Know someone with a
great idea? LFG.

We will see a surge in innovation around fashion, wearables, in-game assets, and other
assets we can use and bridge across different metaverses like the Otherside which we know
will support interoperability and allow us a chance to bring their outside collections
and NFTs in.

Now is the time to get a head start and building if you’re not already. It’s easier than
you think and using a platform like NiftyKit will unlock your freedom to be creative.

In addition to providing the premier tool for creators to adopt $APE, we will help
onboard and educate project founders and their teams on how to launch their projects on
ApeCoin. There is more than just artwork that goes into an NFT drop and there are many
places where something can go wrong. We want projects to be equipped with the right tools
and armed with the correct knowledge needed to succeed.

We are entirely bootstrapped, so we are asking for a grant from the ApeCoin DAO to fund
the the development, maintenance, and creation of this project.

Key Terms
NiftyKit - This grant will fund the implementation of ApeCoin on our current platform
at app.niftykit.com
NFT Drop - The creation of NFTs to launch and sell to buyers purchasing using cryptocurrency
AIP - Ape Improvement Proposal

Specifications
Since our platform is already created, our team will be implementing the ability to
launch NFT drops that accept ApeCoin as a new feature to our existing app.

Our Platform
NiftyKit is the outcome of our team’s collective experience launching over 500 drops with
an intuitive user interface to maximize creator earnings and efficiency while deploying
their digital assets.

Current Features
Fully Audited Smart Contracts (by ChainSafe)
Unlimited Multi-chain Minting: Ethereum Mainnet, Polygon, Optimism
ERC721 & ERC721A Smart Contracts
Batch Airdrops (w/ CSV upload)
Presale Access List
Pre-Reveal/Reveal Interface
Revenue Split (Primary & Secondary Sales)
Customizable Mint Page
JavaScript SDK
Charity Donations (via The Giving Block)

Onboarding Process
Work with Bored Ape owned businesses and influencers to launch their project using our
launchpad.
Investigate projects to team up with
Onboard them to NiftyKit platform
Determine revenue splits, token-gated unlockables , and pre-sale list strategy
Develop and work on the creative design for NFTs
Implement SDK on website and prepare for minting
Upload assets and metadata to IPFS and prepare drop
Launch the primary sale of NFT to community
Earn $APE for each NFT lazy minted through website
Withdraw earnings from smart contract and revenue split

Steps to Implement
Get proposal approved
Develop ApeCoin integration on NiftyKit
Onboard initial ApeCoin projects
Security and smart contract audits
Quality Assurance for application(s)
Creator ApeCoin specific doc/tutorials
Pre-flight preparation for launch
Go live with first ApeCoin drop

Timeline
Month 1
Pre-production planning
Start development (code & design)
Onboard creator pilot
Month 2
Develop ApeCoin integration
Implement front-end UX
QA & submit audit
Month 3
Audit complete
Write documentation
Go live

Overall Cost
We request a grant from the ApeCoin DAO for 8500 $APE per month for three months to
assist in adding and integrating ApeCoin into our fully built, functional, operational
platform and to kickstart a program to onboard NFT projects to $APE.


AIP-96: Funding for Public Goods (ETHGlobal & Gitcoin)
Proposal Category: Public goods funding
@maariab, with support from @azeem at Gitcoin

Timing for ETHOnline and September’s Gitcoin sessions are passed us. This AIP will go
towards funding the next sessions for ETHGlobal and Gitcoin seasons.
ETHGlobal is expected to occur in the next few months. Gitcoin will launch in December.
Costs remain the same.

Abstract:
This AIP provides for $200,000 in APE to fund hackathons and grant programs for people
building for ApeCoin. The funding will be distributed across three initiatives: Ethereum
Foundation’s upcoming ETHOnline hackathon, a dedicated Gitcoin ApeCoin ecosystems grant
program, and Gitcoin’s Change program.
Participating in these initiatives gets ApeCoin more visibility and encourages developers
to build for this community. It also serves as a way for ApeCoin to support public goods
and other communities.

Motivation:
The current AIP process makes it difficult to vet and fund a large number of potential
contributors and projects in an effective way. By leveraging existing trusted ecosystems
like ETHGlobal and Gitcoin, ApeCoin DAO can efficiently scale support for developers and
contributors who want to build within the ecosystem.

By participating in these programs ApeCoin also has the opportunity to fund public good
efforts within the broader crypto ecosystem. The space is still so early that we need to
encourage open source building that others can leverage. We need to encourage continued
innovation and building in the space, and this is an opportunity for us to support those
contributors who are pushing us forward.

I am requesting:
$45k to participate in the ETHOnline hackathon ($35k sponsorship fee + $10k in prizes)
$100k for funding a dedicated Gitcoin ApeCoin ecosystem program
$50k for funding Gitcoin’s Climate, DEI, and Advocacy program
$5k to donate to another community at ETHOnline. We can match funding, sponsor a prize
pool, or donate it to cover expenses for low-income community members.

Rationale:
By participating in ETHGlobal hackathons and creating a Gitcoin ecosystem fund, ApeCoin
is participating in the collective efforts that will continue to push the entire
cryptocurrency ecosystem forward. There are many L1s and DeFi protocols that already
participate, but participation from the NFT community is still relatively nascent. Grant
funding will encourage developers to build new applications for the NFT community, which
should be a major objective of ApeCoin DAO.

ETHGlobal is the Premiere Ethereum hackathon organizer and has run over 30 hackathons
around the world and online since 2017. These events have generated over 3500 projects
and distributed over $3M in prizes to the developer community. ETHOnline is ETHGlobal’s
flagship hackathon of 2022.

Gitcoin empowers communities of builders to connect and work together to create the
future of the open web. Their ecosystem rounds provide an opportunity for Web3 projects
to advance open source efforts in their own ecosystems. Gitcoin has funded $65M+ of open
source software to date.

The goal of this funding is to increase awareness and adoption of ApeCoin. Success will
be measured by the volume and quality of the programs that are built. We will work with
Gitcoin and ETHGlobal to provide key metrics to the DAO post-hackathon.

Specifications:
ETHOnline: https://online.ethglobal.com/
Largest hackathon of the year, runs for the entire month of September. Funding will cover
$35k sponsorship fee and maximum $10k prize pool. The hackathon prompts and prize
distribution will be finalized in collaboration with the ETHGlobal team closer to the
event. You can look at examples of how the program is set up here: https://ethglobal.com/events/ethmexico/prizes 4

We will also be able to select one item for the swag bag. I’d like a community member to
select the item and coordinate the logistics (I’m hoping @herb will be down)

Once the proposal passes, ETHOnline will send us an invoice, and we can remit payment via
wire or tokens. Invoice will specify payment details.

ETHOnline hackathon winners will be selected by ApeCoin representatives, including me
(Maaria) and up to 4 ApeCoin holders who want to participate. Community members interested
in participating should message me.

Gitcoin ecosystem fund: Hackathons | Gitcoin
Requesting $100k to fund an ecosystem grant program to run from September 7th to 22nd.
Gitcoin grants are awarded to developers building open source tooling that further
develops the ApeCoin ecosystem. Also requesting a $50k allocation to the Gitcoin Change
initiatives (Climate, DEI, Regulatory Advocacy 2 and DeSci) to further public good.

Requesting $5k be held back to support another community participating in ETHOnline.
These funds will not be transferred / requested until the cause is identified. If a cause
is not identified by the end of ETHOnline (Sept 30), the funds will remain in the
treasury and will be available for other DAO initiatives.

Eligibility:
Applications for the are open to anyone who meets the following eligibility criteria:

The Grant must support or directly advance the ApeCoin or NFT ecosystem
The Grant may not have any form of quid pro quo that has financial value (a scenario in
which a user gets some additional unique benefit/award in return for their donation)
The Grant owner must be directly affiliated with the project; the funds must go to the
project; and the funds must be used for the purposes stated in the Grant’s details.
The Grant should be focused on accomplishing the following for ApeCoin:
Usability - improving the user experience
Community - growing the ecosystem
Tooling - improving the developer experience
Governance - building tools and enhancements for governance
DApps - applications integrating ApeCoin
The project should not have its own token or have raised VC funding (matching funds are
reserved for the aspiring projects!)
The Grant should be open source

ApeCoin DAO will hold the discretion on which grants are eligible for matching on
Gitcoin, and which projects are awarded prizes at ETHOnline.
I will participate in the judging for ETHOnline. Up to 4 other APE holder who want to
participate and judge can join me. Please reach out to me if you’re interested in
participating.

Steps to Implement:
After AIP is passed, ETHGlobal will send us an invoice for $45k that we can pay via wire
or $APE. Payment specifications will be available on invoice.
$100k in APE sent to Gitcoin Grants Multisig: 0xde21F729137C5Af1b01d73aF1dC21eFfa2B8a0d6
$50k in USDC or ETH for the Change program sent to Gitcoin Grants Multisig:
0xde21F729137C5Af1b01d73aF1dC21eFfa2B8a0d6
Remaining $5k will only be requested if we identify an ETHOnline community to donate to.
Payment information TBD.

Timeline:
Both programs are running in September so we need to finalize funding asap. Once funding
is finalized I will confirm ApeCoin’s participation in both programs so we can finalize
any necessary paperwork and remit funding.

Team:
Maaria is coordinating logistics and will not be paid. 100% of funding will go to the
programs
Overall Cost:
$200k
This includes: $45k for ETHOnline hackathon, $100k for a Gitcoin Apecoin ecosystem grant
program, $50k for Gitcoin’s Causes program, and $5k to be donated to another community
for ETHOnline (this funding will only be called if a partner is identified)


AIP-214: Sponsoring The DAM Show + Live Game Shows
Proposal Category: Brand decisions

Abstract | WTF is THE DAM SHOW?
This AIP is to sponsor THE DAM SHOW + our Live Giveaway Gameshows. A portion of the funds
will be used to purchase prizes for our Live Gameshows, which are focused on entertaining
and building hype leading to The Second Trip. The other portion of the funds will be used
to help THE DAM SHOW get more distribution, scale operations, delegate marketing and
editing so that we can become a self sustaining operation by the end of the six month
period. As a sponsor, at minimum, ApeCoin will be mentioned in each of our live streams
and recorded broadcasts in the form of short ad reads, logo overlays, and at times,
sponosored segments.

Author/Team Description | Who are we?
I’m @atareh 8, a molecular scientist that moved into web2 product management and is now
in web3 full-time for 1.5 years. I write insightful threads on Twitter, co-host THE DAM
SHOW, and have been deeply involved in 10KTF (among other Yuga projects). I am one of the
three community members that was anointed a Captain, officially entering the 10KTF
storyline.

@Mebynetta 4 is the second co-host of THE DAM SHOW. She’s an MD and a business owner, and
has been degening into mints since August 2021. She is deeply involved in 10KTF,
especially in helping newcomers enter the project. Her ‘Newcomer Package’ thread
(a collection of official and community resources) helped hundreds of people join and
understand 10KTF. Mebynetta is also known to host “Grunches” IRL (Grailed Brunches).
She is one of the three community members that was anointed a Captain, officially
entering the 10KTF storyline.

@DiamondhandGMI 2 is the third and final co-host of THE DAM SHOW. He is a policy
researcher by day, degen by night. DiamondhandzGMI is well known in the community for
hosting Twitter Spaces about 10KTF, and writing daily speculation recaps for the
community in the early days of the project. He is one of the three community members that
was anointed a Captain, officially entering the 10KTF storyline.

Motivation | Why should ApeCoin DAO fund THE DAM SHOW?
Media brings attention and awareness, which brings value. Nowhere is that more true than
in the NFT space. THE DAM SHOW is a media platform the three Captains of 10KTF started in
July 2022, having all met through 10KTF in September 2021. Since then, we’ve hosted a
twice weekly show (a recorded episode every DAM Monday, and a live episode every DAM
Thursday) totaling more than 88 videos.

So far, we’re 100% bootstrapped, we have not taken any funding and continue to produce
quality content every DAM Monday and every DAM Thursday. Our recorded episodes have
featured notable guests such as Elf and Bear, Founders of Forgotten Runes Wizard Cult,
Luca Netz, Founder of Pudgy Penguins, Valet Jones and SAFA, Founders of Jenkins the
Valet, Yam and Raph, Founders of World of Women, Kakuberry and Cromagnus, Founders of
SAN, and PaperD, Founder of Bored to Death (When BAYC? Soon… we’re in the DMs with
Garga (get well soon Gordon)).

With live shows, we are pushing the boundaries of what’s been done in web3, whether it’s
hosting the first ever NFT Community award show (The WAGMIs), the first live
interactive web3 gameshow (The DAM is Right), or hosting Special council nominees on
The Great Ape Debate. On February 16, we will cover an IRL live event for 10KTF in LA
(for which we made an in-character in-10KTF universe ad: NTEC video). The bottom
line is, our focus with THE DAM SHOW is “fun” - especially the live shows. As we gear
up for a big 2023, we need your help to power us through the plans we have at The DAM
(and we have a lot of them).

Rationale Pt 1 | Does this fit with the DAOs culture and values?
Culture and media are sorely lacking in the ApeCoin ecosystem - while there have been
great initiatives funded like The Bored Ape Gazette 6 - there’s a need in the
Video/Livestream space. By sponsoring THE DAM SHOW, we’ll be bringing thousands of
new eyes to ApeCoin, the DAO itself - and if you can capture attention, you can capture
value.

Think of this as supporting us as we cross the chasm. While we’re not a profitable rev
generating enterprise yet, we will get there as we continue to create great content and
build a following. The purpose of this grant is to get us over the chasm (at the very
least partially), so that our reach is large enough to start generating revenue in the
form of sponsorships, partnerships, ad placements and live events.

In the eight months we’ve been operating, we’ve totalled more than 95,000+ video views
across Twitter and YouTube. Having bootstrapped the entire show for eight months, we’ve
been on a great run in helping bring fun, joy and attention to 10KTF. However, to grow
and expand our show into broader Yuga content (which we’ve already started months back),
we need your help.

Rationale Pt 2 | How this proposal benefits the DAO
As we’re seeing with Dookey Dash, ApeCoin will succeed if gaming succeeds. We know from
the Otherside’s litepaper that microtransactions in ApeCoin will be the currency of
gaming. Purchasing skins, trading, or microtransactions will all happen in ApeCoin in
the Otherside, so if Otherside succeeds, ApeCoin will too (and by extension, the DAO).

Benefit 1: Building hype for Future Otherside Trips
If Dookey Dash is any indictor, micro-transactions in ApeCoin are real and they work.
ApeCoin is the currency of the Otherside as as such, all commerce in it will run on it.
We think that any project that builds on or around the Otherside directly benefits
ApeCoin itself - we’ve seen it in the short-term price action of ApeCoin since Dookey
Dash launched.

Simply, the funding will be used to:
Fund giveaways for Live Game Shows (Phase 1 - $40K USD)
Support the crossing of the chasm (Phase 2 - $55K USD)

Benefit 2: ApeCoin Media Attention
Attention is value which is why Bankless is paid 6 figures per month for sponsorship
slots. While The DAM Show is a smaller operation for now, the attention we bring to
10KTF and other projects is still impactful. An ApeCoin sponsor for The DAM show means
overlays with ApeCoin logo, short ads in the episode, and at times, more funny skits.

Benefit 3: ApeCoin DAO briefings
Lastly, with this sponsorship, we plan to dedicate some parts of our live shows to
ApeCoin DAO - similar to our Special Council election episode, the possibilities are
endless as long as we focus on bringing fun to the community. Whether it’s bringing on
on WG0 members, ApeCoin DAO Special Council members, or other members who have submitted
their proposals, more media attention benefits the DAO and all the participants in it.

Specifications | What we will use the funds for
Simply, the funding will be used to:
Fund giveaways for Live Game Shows (Phase 1 - $40K USD)
Support the crossing of the chasm (Phase 2 - $55K USD)

Phase 1: Live gameshow giveaways leading up to the Third Otherside Trip (+ future trips)
With future trips for otherside expected to come much quick in the coming months, we want
to continue our well received game show “THE DAM IS RIGHT” (TLDR: we hosted a DAM-themed
version of The Price is Right where we gave away a multitude of prizes live - people
loved it).

The purpose of this is to:
Build hype for The Otherside
Get Otherdeeds in the hands of future players
Expand our reach

We plan to spoof several different live gameshows in the lead up to future Trips, such
as: The Price is Right, Who wants to be a millionaire, Wheel of fortune etc. We plan to
use $45K of the budget to purchase Otherdeeds and other smaller prizes to giveaway on
this 4 week run of Live Shows. All giveaway purchases can be transparently viewed by
checking thedamshow.eth multi-sig wallet. We plan to purchase 12 Otherdeeds
(19.99 ETH / $30K USD). The remaining 10K will be used for smaller prizes all in the
Yuga Ecosystem (Sewer passes, 10KTF etc).

The 10KTF project has also provided giveaway support for THE DAM SHOW - offering 10KTF
Genesis items (~1.1 eth floor) to giveaway. We already gave one away last week.

Phase 2: Support the crossing of the chasm
The other purpose of this grant is to get us over the chasm, so that our reach is large
enough to attract sponsorships and The DAM Show can become a self-sustaining
operation - currently, everything has been self-funded by atareh, Meby, and
Diamondhandz. While our initial ask was more conservative, after speaking with community
members and them urging us to not be too conservative (particularly @captetaintrippy),
we’ve slightly increased our original ask for Phase 2 as well. The response from the
community has been great so far as well.

Each of the co-hosts of The DAM Show is responsible for specific parts of the operation.
This includes but is not limited to editing, graphic design, production,
creative direction. The remaining budget will be used to operationalize and delegate
this work. We also require technical livestream consulting to overcome some technical
hurdles so we can enhance our live show experience and legal to create a DAM entity
bound by laws. Over the course of six months, we’ll use the remaining budget to improve
core visual and technical and marketing parts of the show ($50K).

Steps to Implement | How we will use the funds
Phase 1 Line Item Breakdown
12 otherdeeds ($30,000 USD)
10KTF, Sewer passes, other NFT prizes in Yuga Ecosystem ($10,000)
Phase 1 Total: $40,000

Phase 2 Line item Breakdown:
Editing episodes = $100/week (6 months total ~$2,500 USD)
Clipping = $125/week (6 months ~$3000)
Social Media Management = $200/week (6 months total $4,800 USD)
Discord Security Audit = $2500 USD
Graphics and overlays = $120/week (6 months total ~$2,880 USD)
Producer = $80/week (6 months total ~$2,000 USD)
Creative direction + Run of Show production planning = ~$250/week (6 months total = $7,200 USD)
Talent cost = $150 per show (2 shows per week, 6 months total = $21,800 USD (7,200 per host USD))
Software = $150 per month ($900 USD for 6 months)
Merch drop = $1400 USD
Livestream technician = $1500 USD
Production consultation = $600 USD
Legal fees = $3,500 USD
Phase 2 total: $54,580 (~500 for unexpected costs)

Timeline | Relevant timing details, including but not limited to start date, milestones,
and completion dates.
Phase 1 timeline:

With the second trip in Late March, we anticipate there to be 3-4 giveaway shows in the
month of March. These shows will take place during our live shows on Thursdays, but
there is room for flexibility on the weekdays if required (i.e. only 2 Thursdays left
before Second Trip and we have 3 shows planned, 1 show can be moved to another week day).

Phase 2 timeline:

Phase 2 will be on-going upon approval of the grant by the ApeCoin DAO over the course of
6 months. This includes creating sponsored segments for ApeCoin DAO, which includes but
is not limited to: Sponsored overlays for live shows, short segments about major ApeCoin
DAO updates, interviews with past grant winners, short skits, collaborations with other
ApeCoin DAO adjacent organizations.

Overall Cost | The total cost to implement the proposal.
Phase 1: Fund giveaways for Live Game Shows ($40K USD)
Phase 2: Support the crossing of the chasm ($55K USD)
Total: 95,000 USD (~18,969 APE)


AIP-239: Working Group Guidelines & The Governance Working Group Charter
Proposal Category: Process

Abstract
The goal of this AIP is to operationalize the ApeCoin DAO through autonomous Working
Groups, beginning with the Governance Working Group which will allow our community to
continue the DAO approved governance process which allows for the suggestion, discussion,
voting and implementation of proposals. This will empower members of the DAO to make
meaningful contributions and participate in facilitating governance operations, in order
to further decentralize key functions of the DAO. Working Groups enable a sustainable
infrastructure which will allow the DAO to operate efficiently while adapting to any
challenges.

Working Group Charters:
Treasury: Working Group Charter - Treasury
The Treasury Working Group’s Mandate is to: “Explore legal and governance structures that
would enable the DAO to sustain operations and Initiatives in perpetuity. The Treasury
Working Group would also oversee a portion of the ApeCoin DAO’s assets, exploring ways to
deploy them thoughtfully on-chain while promoting a non-custodial environment.”

Metaverse: Working Group Charter - Metaverse
The Metaverse Working Group’s Mandate is to: “Drive culture forward into the metaverse by
actively supporting metaverse-related efforts within the ApeCoin DAO.”

Marketing and Communications: Working Group Charter - Marketing & Communications
The Marketing and Communications Working Group’s Mandate is to: “Create a consistent and
compelling brand strategy and identity for the ApeCoin DAO, develop and implement
comprehensive marketing and communications strategies, and establish a strong presence
through effective global communication efforts in order to onboard more users into the DAO.”

Authors:
Working Group Zero Stewards - @adventurousape, @Amplify, @badteeth, @Halina.eth, @Lost, @Vulkan, @Waabam

Reflection Period
Three months after each election cycle, DAO members will have the opportunity to
purposefully reflect on the effectiveness of this structure and propose meaningful
changes, including addressing the effectiveness of elections for Stewards of Working
Groups.

During Reflection Periods, Stewards will publish proposed changes to the Working Group
structure and a set of governance proposals aimed at addressing the feedback received in
the previous cycle if needed.

Any point after three months from passing, any community member may also propose changes
to the Working Group structure through our AIP process.

Motivation
This proposal lays the framework which will allow the DAO to make progress in addressing
our members’ concerns, including: supporting builders and creators in our ecosystem;
creating, maintaining, and communicating a clear brand strategy; direct support for DAO
members; program development and exploring systems to generate value to the DAO through
the community-directed creation of additional Working Groups.

The desire to further decentralize operations of the DAO was brought forward when the DAO
voted against renewal and expansion for our previous Cayman Islands Administrator’s
services in December of 2022. That desire spawned AIP-196: B.O.R.E.D. AIP 29, and upon
approval by the DAO, created Working Group Zero (WG0) which successfully transitioned
administrator services to new providers and assumed facilitation of the AIP process via
Discourse operations. Following the transition, WG0 has allowed for the existing
DAO-approved governance operations to continue virtually uninterrupted and to become
improved overall. This AIP is the next phase in decentralizing the operations of the DAO
into a well-researched and community-created organizational structure.

Rationale
The Working Group structure proposed within will engage a wider range of community
members in the governance process, promote stability, and encourage long-term planning of
DAO operations. In addition, the creation of a Governance Working group including core
Initiatives: the Ape Assembly; and the DAO Secretary; will enable a governing body to
facilitate Working Group operations, conduct Steward & Special Council elections, and
provide increased transparency for all inter-DAO operations. Taking these actions will
further enable our collective responsibility.

Key Terms
Ape Assembly: A governing body of highly active governance participants within the
ApeCoin Ecosystem. The Ape Assembly is an Initiative to be established within the scope
of the Governance Working Group.
DAO Secretary: Acts as an oversight and accountability role to enhance inter-DAO
communications amongst Working Groups, the Special Council, and with the DAO as a whole.
The DAO Secretary role is an Initiative to be established within the scope of the
Governance Working Group.
Funding Window: The final 15 days of February and August each calendar year in which
Working Group Leads will propose Working Group Budget Proposals. Working Group budgets
will be proposed twice annually for DAO-wide approval.
Initiative: Projects within the scope of a Working Group. This includes any individual(s)
performing work for the DAO within the scope of a Working Group, using a budget ratified
by that Working Group.
OKR (Objectives and Key Results): A means of measuring milestones or success.
Steward: Community members elected to serve the ApeCoin DAO within Working Groups. They
have an obligation to facilitate the will of the DAO.
Working Group Budget Proposal: A budget proposal submitted to the DAO by the Lead of any
Working Group in order to fund the execution of their charter or larger initiatives.
Working Group Leads: Will be selected by the Stewards of each Working Group to serve as
the primary point of contact for inter-DAO operations and project management.
Working Groups: Community led infrastructure, allowing for the execution of specific
DAO-approved mandates.
Working Group Charter: An AIP which outlines a Working Group’s mandate and scope, OKRs,
Initiatives, Reporting Requirements, Stewards, and Budget.
Working Group Zero (or “WG0”): WG0 is an interim Working Group tasked with decentralizing
and operationalizing the DAO. Along with the specific administrative tasks detailed in
AIP-196, WG0 was tasked with proposing Official ApeCoin DAO Working Groups that will
assume the responsibilities of WG0 upon the expiration of its mandate.

Specification (A detailed breakdown of the platforms and technologies that will be used.)
Gnosis Safe MultiSig - To be used for facilitating the use of DAO approved budgets.
Discourse 4 - The forum where our DAO facilitates DAO approved processes.

Introduction to Working Groups
Working Groups are intentional community led infrastructure, which allow for the
execution of DAO-approved mandates. Working Group Charters outline a mandate for a Working
Group, which must align with the vision, and values of the ApeCoin DAO.

Vision
“Culture has found new expression in web3 through art, gaming, entertainment, and events.
The possibilities for blockchain’s impact on culture are so endless that they can’t
possibly all be predicted yet. APE is a token made to support what’s next, controlled and
built on by the community. It will serve as a decentralized protocol layer for
community-led initiatives that drive culture forward into the metaverse.” - APE Foundation

“The goal of the APE Foundation is to steward the growth and development of the APE
ecosystem in a fair and inclusive way.” - APE Foundation

Values
Boldness: We don’t shy away from the weird, the hard, or the new.
Equality: One APE equals one APE.
Transparency: Processes and decisions are shared openly with the community.
Collective Responsibility: We leave everything better than we found it.
Persistence: Success is an ouroboros, not a straight line.

Working Group Basics
Using these tenets as our guide, any DAO member can propose a Working Group Charter to
create a new Working Group.
Based on Working Group Charters, any DAO member can identify improvements to current
Initiatives or propose ideas on how to better meet the mandates in those charters. If
approved, it would be up to the Working Group Stewards to implement these ideas.
If an idea is not acted on by a Working Group, any DAO member can propose that idea,
with the necessary budget, as an Initiative in an AIP to be voted on by the DAO. If the
DAO approves the AIP, the Working Group will be obligated to incorporate the Initiative
into their operations using the budget approved by the DAO.

Working Group Structure Inspiration
The ApeCoin DAO Working Group structure within this proposal closely resembles the ENS
Working Group model combined with elements from Gnosis’ SAFE DAO.

Working Group Guidelines & Process
1. Creation of Additional Working Groups
To create a new Working Group, a Process Proposal, as defined in AIP-1 Proposing the DAO
(‘Process Proposal’) 2, must be approved by the DAO. This takes the form of a Working
Group Charter.
A Process Proposal to create a new Working Group must demonstrate that the new Working
Group is needed.
The proposal must demonstrate clearly why their mandate or scope can’t be reasonably
executed inside an existing Working Group and how this new Working Group will fit into
the overall structure of the DAO.
A Working Group Charter consists of:
Mandate and Scope - What does this group do?
OKRs, if any - How is progress measured against budget proposals?
Initiatives, if any - Which specific tasks or teams does this group need?
Reporting Requirements - How often will this group report to the DAO?
Stewards, if any - Who will maintain this group until the next election?
Budget - How much will this cost until the next Funding Window? (Can be $0)

2. Dissolution of Working Groups
A Working Group can be dissolved or removed by passing a Process Proposal requesting the
dissolution or removal of a Working Group.
Upon the dissolution of a Working Group, any and all unspent Working Group funds from
that Working Group, at the time of dissolution, must be immediately returned to the DAO.

3. Working Group Steward
Each Working Group shall be managed by three Stewards, elected to serve within Working
Groups for a set period of time (hereafter known as a ‘Term’ or ‘Terms’).
Stewards of the Governance Working Group will be elected by the DAO, following the AIP
process.
Stewards of future Working Groups will be considered elected by the DAO if they are
personally named in a proposed Working Group Charter which passes our governance process
via a DAO-wide vote.
If no Stewards are personally named in a Working Group Charter which passes our
governance process via a DAO-wide vote, the Ape Assembly will run an election to
determine the Stewards of the new Working Group.
Stewards are responsible for supervising the operations of their Working Group.
Eligible members of the ApeCoin DAO may not hold either a Steward role, Special Council
Role, or DAO Secretary role concurrently.
The responsibilities of Stewards include, but are not limited to:
Managing their Working Group multisig.
Operational tasks related to the administration and reporting requirements of their
Working Group.
Maintaining relevant documents and their Working Group Charter.
Organizing and approving Initiatives within a Working Group.
Communicating and coordinating with the APE Foundation Administrators, Special Council
and the DAO Secretary.
Approving budgets for Initiatives and contributors.
Executing their Working Group Charters.
Steward Responsibility to the DAO

Stewards are responsible for facilitating the will of the DAO. Stewards of Working Groups
can be mandated to perform tasks, set objectives and goals, sign documents and enter into
agreements pending the outcome of our governance process, or an AIP. They are also
responsible for their Working Group’s multi-sig wallet.

5. Removal and Replacement of Working Group Stewards
A Steward will be removed if a Process Proposal requesting the removal of a Steward is
passed, or they have reached their Term limit.
Stewards may step down from their position at any time by communicating their intention
to step down in the ApeCoin DAO governance forum.
In the event that a Steward is removed, steps down, or is unable to continue as a Steward,
for whatever reason, their multi-sig ownership will be revoked and the multi-sig will be
operated by the two remaining Stewards along with the DAO Secretary until such a time as
a new Steward is elected.
In the event that a Steward is removed, steps down, or is unable to continue as a Steward,
for whatever reason, any temporary vacant positions will be filled by a contributor
selected by the Ape Assembly, until an election to assign a new Steward to that Working
Group has been completed.

6. Working Group Budgets
To request Working Group funds, Leads of each Working Group will submit Ecosystem Fund
Allocation Proposals, as defined in AIP-1 Proposing the DAO (‘Ecosystem Fund Allocation
Proposal’) 2 in the form of a Working Group Budget Proposal within the final 15 days
(inclusive) of the months of, February and August each calendar year
(each a ‘Funding Window’).
In the case of an emergency, where Working Group funds are needed by a Working Group
outside of a Funding Window, an Ecosystem Fund allocation proposal may be submitted
at any time by the Lead of a Working Group to request funds from the DAO.
Each Working Group multi-sig must have four keyholders, made up of the three current
elected Stewards for that Working Group and the Secretary of the DAO.
Working Group funds may be disbursed from Working Group multi-sigs with three-of-four
keyholder signing.
Stewards of a Working Group shall have the discretion to allocate their own Working
Group funds where appropriate and where it is not illegal or in conflict with any
AIPs or other rules.
All requests for Steward compensation must be detailed in a Working Group Budget
Proposal or Working Group Charter.
Stewards may not receive compensation for their role as a Steward outside of that
compensation expressly provided for in this AIP, or a Working Group Budget Proposal.

Governance Working Group Charter
*This Charter can serve as a general “template” for any DAO member to propose
future Working Groups.

1. Governance Working Group Mandate and Scope:
This group is responsible for providing neutral and objective governance oversight and
support for the operations of the ApeCoin DAO. This includes, but is not limited to:

Providing operational support and project management support for the Foundation.
Coordinating the team of moderators, administrators, and lead in Discourse.
Assisting with transitioning of Foundation service providers.
Creating and maintaining policies and procedures as they relate to governance.
Maintaining operations and supporting governance Initiatives like the Ape Assembly
and the DAO Secretary.
Assisting with facilitating the Special Council Election Process as outlined in
AIP-137: The Special Council Nomination Process, and AIP-138: The Special Council
Election Process.

2. OKRs to complete before August 2023 Funding Window:
Ratify the formation of the Ape Assembly.
Publish and maintain a DAO handbook which explains in detail how the DAO is currently
structured.
Assist with facilitating Cycle Two of the Special Council Election Process starting
in May.
Assist with facilitating Cycle Two of the Governance Working Group Election Process
starting in May.

3. Governance Working Group Initiatives:
1. Discourse Administration

With Discourse being the platform in which our DAO facilitates the governance process,
or AIP-1 2, the Governance Working Group would oversee the administration and project
management included in facilitating Discourse operations as outlined and budgeted in
the Community Discourse Facilitators proposal authored by @Waabam (4/5/23) and would
continue to:

Provide operational support and project management support for the Foundation.
Act as the team of moderators and administrators in Discourse.
Act as the team of reviewers to prepare reports and any other supporting documentation
necessary.
2. The Ape Assembly

The Ape Assembly is an electorate of the most highly active governance participants
within the ApeCoin ecosystem. The Ape Assembly is an Initiative to be established
within the scope of the Governance Working Group, which will be tasked with facilitating
elections for Working Group Stewards. Voting within the Ape Assembly will be on a one
vote per person basis with required proof of personhood.

The Ape Assembly can be thought of as a legislative shrewdness of ApeCoin token holders
who meet regularly to discuss DAO-wide issues and collectively write AIPs to address
them. This group primarily focuses on governance, coordination and transparency within
the DAO.

To ensure participants in the Ape Assembly have the necessary prior experience with
ApeCoin governance, we propose that members of the Ape Assembly should maintain the
same DAO approved eligibility criteria in Working Group Zero from AIP-196: BORED AIP 29,
including proof of personhood:

$APE holders who have achieved Trust Level Status 2 (Member) or higher on the ApeCoin
DAO Discourse; or
$APE holders who have voted on at least 50% of the AIPs that have gone to Snapshot; or
$APE holders with 50,000 APE or more in voting power and have voted on at least one AIP.
At present, this criteria represents ~500 $APE holders, or wallets. After proof of
personhood criteria we expect this number to be lower.

As an Initiative within the scope of the Governance Working Group, the Ape Assembly would
be compelled to request a budget and any potential for compensation from the Governance
Working Group. The Ape Assembly may approve budgets for several committees, which are
expected to form within the DAO.

3. The ApeCoin DAO Secretary

The ApeCoin DAO Secretary is considered an Initiative within the scope of the Governance
Working Group. The Secretary acts as an oversight and accountability role to enhance
inter-DAO communications amongst Working Groups, the Special Council, and with the DAO
as a whole.

The Ape Assembly shall convene to elect an individual who will serve as the Secretary
of the DAO.
The Secretary is subject to the same Removal and Replacement rules ratified above.
The Secretary would have term limits subject to the discretion of the Ape Assembly.
As an Initiative within the scope of the Governance Working Group, the DAO Secretary
would be compelled to request a budget and compensation from the Governance Working
Group.
Eligible members of the ApeCoin DAO may not hold either a Steward role, Special
Council Role, or DAO Secretary role concurrently.
The responsibilities of the Secretary include, but are not limited to:

Managing a DAO-wide calendar;
Managing a DAO-wide organization chart;
Publishing a monthly ApeCoin DAO Transparency Report;
Publishing an annual ApeCoin DAO Progress Report;
Attending Working Group meetings where possible and ensuring meeting summaries are
posted in the APE governance forum;
The Secretary will attend at least one meeting weekly with each Working Group where
possible;
Assisting Stewards with coordination challenges within Working Groups;
Participating in a bi-weekly coordination call, held with the Leads from each Working
Group, to align broader DAO strategy.
Acting as a multi-sig signer for Working Groups.
As one of the elected Working Group Zero Stewards and a champion of this proposal,
@Vulkan is proposed as the DAO Secretary subject to the term limits set by the Ape
Assembly upon inception.

4. Governance Working Group Reporting Requirements:
The Governance Working Group will publish budget and progress reports to the DAO on a
quarterly basis. These reports will include Governance Initiative progress reports and
budget expenditures, as well as a summary of the activities within the Governance
Working Group for a given quarter.

5. Governance Working Group Stewards & Elections:
This AIP will mimic the timing, election cycles, process, and eligibility criteria
outlined in AIP-137: The Special Council Nomination Process, and AIP-138: The Special
Council Election Process. Specifically, elections for the Governance Working Group
Stewards will begin in “Cycle Two” and will take place on Discourse in the “Working
Group Steward Elections” Category. These specifications are briefly outlined below:
Election Cycles:
Timing and cadence of elections: Elections shall occur every six months.
Nomination and election to occur over November & December; elected Steward(s) to start
in January (“Cycle One”).
Nomination and election to occur over May & June; elected Steward(s) to start in July
(“Cycle Two”).
The following seats will be up for election at these times:
Cycle One: Seat One
Cycle Two: Seats Two, & Three
Election Terms and Limits:
Term: Each seat is for a one-year term.
Term limit: An existing Governance Steward may nominate themselves for re-election and
be elected to the Governance Working Group up to two terms in a row.
Following the term limit, the former Governance Steward must wait at least one election
cycle prior to being able to nominate themselves for the Governance Working Group Steward
position. In other words, if the term limit ended on Cycle One, the Steward may nominate
themselves for the next Cycle Two election six months later.
As the lead author and one of the many champions of this proposal, @Amplify is a proposed
Steward for this Working Group to ensure continuity. The other two Stewards will be
elected by the DAO following the election cycle ratified above.

@Amplify will fill “Seat One” up for election in November / December 2023.
Seat 2, up for election in June/July 2023, will be elected by the DAO.
Seat 3, up for election in June/July 2023, will be elected by the DAO.

6. Governance Working Group Budget until August 2023 Funding Window:
This AIP is requesting up to $180,000 USD in $APE using the price of APE when the grant
is issued in order to fund the operations of the Governance Working Group.

Stewards will be compensated $9,000 USD each month in $APE using the price of APE when
the grant is issued.
The DAO Secretary will be compensated $7,000 USD each month in $APE using the price of
APE when the grant is issued.
The Governance Working Group will have an Operations Fund of $10,000 USD monthly.
The Ape Assembly will have a budget of $10,000 USD each month for community led
committees.

Steps To Implement
This Ape Improvement Proposal requests the relevant parties responsible for Discourse to
create a new forum category titled: “Working Group Steward Elections”.

There will be a DAO Handbook published to Discourse and housed in the Help and Resources
category which will illustrate the relationships between all of the actors and groups in
our DAO and how they interact and work together after the passing of this AIP, published
by the Governance Working Group Steward(s).

It is expected that Working Groups will set up their own independent entities, separate
from each other, and the APE Foundation.

Application, Verification, and Elections for Governance Working Group Stewards
Applicants will be invited to nominate themselves as Stewards for the Governance Working
Group. In the nomination announcement within the “Working Group Steward Elections”
category on Discourse, a link to a form will be provided for Applicants to submit the
same information requested from applicants during the Special Council nominations and
elections processes outlined in AIP-137.

Timeline
The timeline for the implementation of this proposal is as follows:
The Governance Working Group multisig will be deployed before the Steward Elections in
May/June 2023.
Election of two other Stewards begins in May/June 2023 following the same cadence as
the Special Council.
The Ape Assembly will be ratified and empowered with their budget following the elections
for Governance Working Group Stewards in May/June.
Reflection Period: Beginning October 1st, 2023.
Within 45 days of the Stewards onboarding: Governance Working Group begins operations.

Within 45 days of the Stewards onboarding: Governance Working Group begins operations.

Overall Cost
This AIP is requesting up to $180,000 USD in $APE using the price of APE when the grant
is issued in order to fund the operations of the Governance Working Group.

The Governance Working Group will invoice the Foundation as needed against this budget
until the Governance Working Group Multisig is deployed with four signers including the
DAO Secretary. The Governance Working Group will then take custody of the budget.

Governance Working Group Monthly Expenses in USD:
Component - May - June - July - August
Steward(s) - 9000 - 9000 - 27000 - 27000
Secretary - 7000 - 7000 - 7000 - 7000
Operations Fund - 10000 - 10000 - 10000
Ape Assembly - 10000 - 10000 - 10000
Total - 36000 - 36000 - 54000 - 54000

Stewards will be compensated $9,000 USD each month in $APE using the price of APE when
the grant is issued.
The DAO Secretary will be compensated $7,000 USD each month in $APE using the price of
APE when the grant is issued.
The Governance Working Group will have an Operations Fund of $10,000 USD monthly.
The Ape Assembly will have a budget of $10,000 USD each month for community led
committees.
May and June expenses include one Governance Working Group Steward.
July and August expenses include three Governance Working Group Stewards.


AIP-256: ApeCoin DAO Mission Statement

Resubmission Updates
This AIP empowers the DAO to vote on a final mission statement from 8 different community
submitted and selected options. I simplified the proposal removing the Smithsonian
Workshop facilitation and have updated the process to include feedback received during
the months we spent workshopping the mission statement in WG0.

Abstract
A good mission statement should clearly define the purpose and goals of an organization,
providing a sense of direction and helping to unify the members of the organization around
a common set of objectives.

This AIP will engage our community to complete the months of work the DAO spent
workshopping a mission statement in WG0 and on Twitter Spaces. We will finalize a mission
statement that will serve as a northstar for the DAO.

Author Description
Name: Badteeth | Josh Friedberg
Life-long skateboarder. Three decades building at the intersection of art, sport, and
technology. Down the NFT rabbit hole in January 2021. Minted apes. Full-time Web3 since
May 2022. Co-founder of THE 288 https://twitter.com/288gang and Rara Avis
https://twitter.com/raraavisapp. Lead-author AIP-196, served as elected ApeCoin DAO
WG0 Steward.

Motivation
With the talent, brainpower, and treasury available to our ecosystem, there is literally
no limit to what ApeCoin DAO can accomplish if we can align around a common purpose.
This common purpose, defined by our mission statement will:

Streamline the AIP process by creating clarity for contributors around what the DAO is
looking to accomplish
Attract creators and developers in the space aligned with our mission
Actively reinforce our founder’s vision to position APE as a token that, “will serve as
a decentralized protocol layer for community-led initiatives that drive culture forward
into the metaverse.”
Clarify what exactly it is ApeCoin DAO exists to do

Rationale
It’s tough to align with a mission when we have yet to define a mission – but defining
our mission is exactly what this AIP aims to do. This process has been one of
persistence, one of our five guiding values.

Key Terms
Mission Statement: A good mission statement should clearly define the purpose and goals
of an organization, providing a sense of direction and helping to unify the members of
the organization around a common set of objectives.

Vision Statement: Mission statements are rooted in the moment. Vision statements, on the
other hand, look to the future. These statements focus on what the company aspires to be
once it achieves its mission. The vision statement as presented on apecoin.com is:

“Culture has found new expression in web3 through art, gaming, entertainment, and events.
The possibilities for blockchain’s impact on culture are so endless that they can’t
possibly all be predicted yet. APE is a token made to support what’s next, controlled
and built on by the community. It will serve as a decentralized protocol layer for
community-led initiatives that drive culture forward into the metaverse.”

Guiding Values: The ApeCoin guiding values as presented in AIP-1 are:

Boldness: We don’t shy away from the weird, the hard, or the new.
Equality: One APE equals one APE.
Transparency: Processes and decisions are shared openly with the community.
Collective Responsibility: We leave everything better than we found it.
Persistence: Success is an ouroboros, not a straight line.

Specifications
@ApeCoin Twitter
WG0 Discord
Google Forms

Steps to Implement
Schedule three mission statement workshops over three weeks open to all DAO members in
order to finalize the mission statement
Workshop 1 - @apecoin Twitter Space - review process thus far, review survey info, call
for mission statement submissions* from community to be submitted in a Discourse General Post
Workshop 2 - WG0 Discord - review submissions and narrow down to top 8 options through a
week of emoji voting. We’ll chose different reactions for each submission and as is
typical in most Discord polls and those with the most reactions will win. Since the WG0
Discord is token-gated with a 1 $APE requirement I don’t believe we’ll have a bot issue.
Workshop 3 - @apecoin Twitter Space - announce 8 finalists and have them share their
mission statement prior to sending to DAO-wide vote in which voters will select their
preferred mission statement
Socialize the mission statement finalists including native-speaker translations in
Mandarin, Hindi, Spanish, French – both written and on video where possible. To further
increase accessibility we will include as many native speaker translations into as many
languages as possible.
Send the Mission Statements finalists to DAO-wide vote for approval and finalize the
ApeCoin DAO Mission Statement based on the results of said vote. As an approved part of
this AIP, this vote will go up in a format similar to the final phase of the Special
Council elections where voters will have the opportunity to vote for one option out of
the 8 finalists or choose, “none of the above.”

*Mission statement submissions must represent the vision and guiding values of the
Ape Foundation. As with everything else in the DAO, the mission statement will be subject
to the AIP process and can be changed at any time after the first three months following
initial approval by the DAO.

Timeline
Three consecutive weeks of workshops as outlined in the Steps to Implement section will
be scheduled within one week of this AIP passing
On the week following the last workshop, the mission statement finalists will go up for
a DAO-wide vote
Upon selection of a mission statement by DAO voters, the Ape Foundation, Governance
Working Group, or other responsible parties will:
Update the apecoin.com 3 website to include the mission statement on the “About” and
“Governance” pages
Update the Snapshot profile to include the mission statement
Add the mission statement under “Motivation” in AIP-1
Add the mission statement where relevant on the WG0 Discord and Discourse
Add the mission statement to all ApeCoin DAO social media accounts
Promote the new mission statement with a post on all social media accounts

Overall Cost
1 $APE


AIP-259: Language and Market Focus for ApeCoin DAO in 2024-2025
PROPOSAL CATEGORY: Process

Abstract
This proposal aims to establish clear decision-making processes within ApeCoin DAO to
prioritize and focus our efforts on specific markets. By identifying selected markets
and aligning our actions accordingly, we can maximize our impact, promote inclusivity,
and build a stronger presence in targeted regions or demographics.

AUTHOR
I am Mr. Hype, an enthusiastic member of the ApeCoin community dedicated to fostering
inclusivity and driving community growth. Within the ApeCoin DAO, I actively contribute
by streamlining proposals and integrating valuable feedback to ensure optimal success.
My professional expertise lies in establishing and expanding early-stage media and
technology ventures. With a solid background in law, I have accumulated five years of
experience providing legal counsel in infrastructure sectors, including green energy,
water, communications (5G), and natural gas. Notably, I served as a legal advisor for
The Quarry Rehabilitation Fund, overseeing multimillion-dollar valuation executions,
shaping long-term policies, and actively collaborating with the public sector to ensure
democratic laws and implementation strategies.

About the web3 landscape, I have dedicated the past two years full-time to web3 endeavors.
As CEO of an NFT investment DAO, I meticulously analyze market trends and possess in-depth
insights into blockchain technology from a programming standpoint. My educational
qualifications include an LL.B and B.A. from Reichman University, specializing in Finances
and Risk Management. Presently, I take pride in my role as the creator of The Pixelated
Apes and the visionary founder of PixeLabs DAO.

In short, The Diamond Handed Zombie

MOTIVATION
The challenge we currently face is the need for collective agreement on which markets to
prioritize as a DAO. While individual community members may continue activities in other
languages, it is crucial for the DAO treasury to determine the focus of our efforts to
ensure success in specific markets. By channeling our capabilities and resources
effectively, we can dominate these markets and achieve significant impact.

RATIONALE
The rationale behind this proposal is to ensure the efficient allocation of resources
and the focused execution of initiatives within ApeCoin DAO. By selecting specific markets
to prioritize, we can maximize our impact, promote inclusivity, and establish a stronger
presence in targeted regions or demographics. The following points highlight the
importance and benefits of adopting a language and market focus strategy:

1. Strategic Resource Allocation
By concentrating our efforts on selected markets, we can allocate our resources more
effectively. By specifying the markets to be targeted, it enables AIP authors to align
their proposals with the overall strategic goals of the DAO. This streamlining ensures
that AIPs are purposeful, relevant, and contribute to the selected market objectives;

2. Clear Direction for Community
A clear language and market focus strategy provides the community with a sense of
direction and purpose. It eliminates confusion and uncertainty regarding the markets
we aim to target and the initiatives we plan to undertake. This clarity enhances
community cohesion and allows individuals to align their efforts with the DAO’s
overarching goals;

3. Enhanced AIP Impact
Concentrating AIP efforts on selected markets allows for a more significant impact.
Instead of dispersing resources and attention across multiple markets, a focused
approach enables AIPs to address the specific needs, challenges, and opportunities
within the targeted regions or demographics. This focus enhances the potential
effectiveness and success of each AIP;

4. Optimal Impact and Influence
A focused approach enables us to make a significant impact in selected markets. By
concentrating our efforts, we can establish a stronger presence and gain influence
within these regions or demographics. This can lead to increased market adoption,
partnerships, and overall growth for ApeCoin DAO;

5. Efficient Decision-Making
Implementing a language and market focus strategy provides a clear framework for
decision-making within ApeCoin DAO. It ensures that proposals and initiatives are
aligned with the selected markets, avoiding dilution of efforts across multiple
markets. This streamlined decision-making process improves efficiency, accountability,
and the overall execution of projects. Focusing on specific markets allows for better
measurement and evaluation of AIP outcomes;

6. Coordinated Market Expansion
By concentrating our efforts on selected markets, we can ensure coordinated and strategic
expansion. Instead of individual AIPs focusing on different markets, a unified approach
allows us to maximize impact and avoid potential fragmentation of resources and
initiatives.

By adopting a language and market focus strategy, ApeCoin DAO can optimize its resources,
increase market penetration, foster inclusivity, achieve significant impact, and
streamline decision-making processes. This approach sets the foundation for a dynamic,
diverse, and successful community that transcends linguistic barriers and expands its
influence globally.

KEY TERMS:

Selected Markets
Selected markets are specific regions or demographics that are identified and prioritized
by ApeCoin DAO for focused efforts and resource allocation. These markets represent
target areas where the DAO aims to expand its presence and achieve significant impact.

Language and Market Focus Strategy
The language and market focus strategy refers to the approach of concentrating efforts
and resources on specific markets within ApeCoin DAO. This strategy involves prioritizing
certain regions or demographics and aligning actions, initiatives, and AIPs accordingly
to maximize impact and establish a stronger presence in those targeted areas.

Coordinated Market Expansion
Coordinated market expansion refers to the strategic and synchronized expansion efforts
of ApeCoin DAO within selected markets. Instead of pursuing individual initiatives or
AIPs targeting different markets, a coordinated approach ensures harmonized actions,
collaboration, and avoidance of fragmentation in resources and initiatives. This
coordinated expansion maximizes impact and facilitates the growth of ApeCoin within the
selected markets.

Please note that these definitions are specific to the context of the proposal and may
not reflect broader industry or community-wide definitions.

SPECIFICATIONS:
Mandate and Scope
The Language and Market Focus proposal for ApeCoin DAO in 2024-2025 aims to establish a
binding decision that prioritizes market-focused efforts. The proposal outlines a
framework for selecting markets in which ApeCoin DAO will concentrate its resources and
initiatives in 2024 and 2025. The primary objectives of this framework are to align with
the overall goals of the DAO, optimize resource allocation, and enhance the
effectiveness of initiatives within the chosen markets.

General Guarantees
Identifying specific markets that align with the following goals:
A. Facilitating the growth of existing offerings and operations within the DAO.
B. Promoting economic growth and reducing disparities through web3 activities.
Cultivating the DAO as an inclusive community while targeting preferred areas.
Establishing guidelines for incentivizing proposal authors to focus on the preferred
markets, based on the defined priority strategy.

OKR
Formation and approval of an AIP to establish an expert steering committee or engage an
external consulting company, to suggest Language and Market Focus Strategy.

Formation and approval of an AIP outlining the selected markets, along with the incentive
rules and associated costs for the year 2024-2025.

STEPS TO IMPLEMENT:
1. Formation of an AIP of a steering committee responsible for recommending potential
markets, and engaging the services of an external consulting company or involving
community members to conduct comprehensive market research, including gathering feedback
and insights from the community.

2. Analysis of the research findings and recommendation of specific markets that align
with the outlined objectives. Development and refinement of the incentive rules and
associated costs, considering the selected markets and the DAO’s available resources.

3. Final approval of the AIP by the DAO members, to determine the markets to be focused
on in 2024-2025, include rules for receiving incentives and determining the associated
costs for the selected markets.

TIMELINE
Milestone #1: End of Q3 2023
Formation of Steering Committee

Milestone #2: End of Q4 2023
Publish Language and Market Focus Strategy for 2024-2025

Milestone #3: End of Q1 2024
Community Input and Feedback, and live AIP to vote on the Language and Market Focus
Strategy & Coordinated Market Expansion.

OVERALL COST: 0 $APE


AIP-274: “ApeCoin Powered” & “Powered by ApeCoin” Logo implementation
CATEGORY: Brand

ABSTRACT
This AIP proposes the immediate adoption and usage of these “ApeCoin Powered” and
“Powered by ApeCoin” logos. These logos will serve as a visual endorsement and
recognition of initiatives that exclusively use ApeCoin for transactions, assuming they
are in alignment with the values and mission of the ApeCoin ecosystem.

MOTIVATION
The introduction of the “ApeCoin Powered” and “Powered by ApeCoin” logos aims to foster
a sense of unity and shared identity within our diverse community. By visibly marking
and endorsing initiatives that operate exclusively with ApeCoin, we are not only
increasing the utility and recognition of ApeCoin but also encouraging more projects
to adopt it. This visual token of affiliation would contribute to a stronger sense of
belonging within our ecosystem, further solidifying the connection among members and
fostering collaborative growth.

RATIONALE
The introduction of these logos acts as a visual representation of ApeCoin’s reach and
influence across various projects, thereby bolstering its recognition and usage within
the ecosystem. This initiative encourages more platforms to adopt ApeCoin.

KEY TERMS
Ecosystem : In this context, it refers to the ApeCoin community, the blockchain, the
currency (ApeCoin), and all services, projects, and initiatives surrounding it.

SPECIFICATIONS
Logos: The “ApeCoin Powered” and “Powered by ApeCoin” logos are ready for immediate use
as transparent pngs.

Usage: Entities that exclusively accept ApeCoin as a means of transaction, and AIP
projects approved by the DAO, can use this logo to signify their affiliation with the
ApeCoin ecosystem. This is conditional on their material and actions being in line with
the values and mission of the ecosystem.

Design Adjustments: The logo design is open to fine-tuning and adjustments by
professional graphic designers to ensure it suits different usage contexts and maintains
a high standard of visual communication.

STEPS TO IMPLEMENT
Secure approval for this AIP.
Immediate distribution and implementation of the logo.

TIMELINE
Both Logos will become available to those who qualify upon this AIP passing.

REVOCABILITY
Privileges to use the “ApeCoin Powered” and “Powered by ApeCoin” logos may be revoked
by the community if its usage is found to be inconsistent with the values and mission
of the ApeCoin ecosystem.

COST $0


AIP-297: An NFT Community Vault Operating as an ApeCoin Sister DAO with a Goal to Advance the Mission and Influence of ApeCoin

Summary:
An idea for an Apecoin operated NFT Community Vault operating as an sub-DAO with a goal
to advance the mission and influence of ApeCoin.

This proposal aims to secure an initial budget of 750,000 APE (this can be flexible
depending on the initial NFT purchase idea) from the DAO treasury to purchase various
non-fungible tokens (NFTs) from culturally significant and influential collections in
the web3 ecosystem. The acquired NFTs will be held in a community-run vault with clear
reporting and transparency, provided by the Committee with key decisions being made by
Apecoin holders through a vote (eg. via snapshot). The community-run vault will serve as
a catalyst for introducing ApeCoin as the representative token of web3 culture within
other web3 NFT culture ecosystems, and seeks to foster collaboration, innovation, and
cross-pollination between ApeCoin and other web3 & NFT communities.

It will operate as a sub-DAO of ApeCoin meaning that key decisions run by this vault will
be operated by community votes using APE. NFT purchases (and disposals) for instance
could then be made by community votes.

This AIP is co-authored by Yat Siu, Chairman of Animoca Brands and former ApeCoin DAO
Special Council Member, and Tyler Durden, Mocaverse Lead and Head of Projects at Animoca
Brands, with obvious intention to grow ApeCoin influence in web3 and grow web3 as a whole.

Draft Proposal:
Purpose: The purpose of this proposal is to grow the influence of ApeCoin across the
web3 ecosystem and catalyze collaboration amongst web3 projects and by establishing a
community-run vault to hold a diverse collection of NFTs that ultimately would be
controlled by Apecoin holders. These NFTs will represent artistic, cultural, and
technological expressions within other decentralized communities. The acquisition of the
NFTs as the first step could potentially be followed by $APE to power the adoption of the
acquired NFT IP in later phases, and further solidify ApeCoin’s position as
representative token of web3 culture

Budget Allocation: We propose allocating an initial budget of 750,000 ApeCoin from the
DAO treasury for acquiring NFTs. The budget will be utilized to 1.) (500,000 $APE)
purchase NFTs from various platforms and projects that align with the vision and values
of ApeCoin, encompassing art, music, virtual worlds, gaming, and other web3 domains
2.) a buffer of an additional 250,000 $APE for additional NFT purchases that may be
needed and development of any related services to assist in maintaining the VAULT
initially. As part of this a mini-constitution as to how the VAULT would be operated
would also be drawn up.

Budget Allocation: We propose allocating an initial budget of 750,000 ApeCoin from the
DAO treasury for acquiring NFTs. The budget will be utilized to 1) (500,000 $APE)
purchase NFTs from various platforms and projects that align with the vision and values
of ApeCoin, encompassing art, music, virtual worlds, gaming, and other web3 domains
2) a buffer of an additional 250,000 $APE for additional NFT purchases that may be
needed and development of any related services to assist in maintaining the VAULT
initially. As part of this a mini-constitution as to how the VAULT would be operated
would also be drawn up.

Committee: A dedicated community-led committee will be formed to oversee the selection
and acquisition process, and responsible for operations such as reporting and
communication. The committee will comprise members with expertise and knowledge in
the web3 ecosystem, NFTs, and decentralized communities. The committee will ensure
transparency, inclusivity, and a fair evaluation of potential NFT purchases, considering
factors such as ApeCoin ecosystem collaboration, artistic merit, cultural relevance,
technical innovation, and alignment with the web3 culture. Animoca Brands will serve as
the starting committee for the first 6-month term, thereafter it is proposed that there
be an election to vote in new committee members to run this VAULT. Voting for this new
committee will be done exclusively with Apecoin.

NFT Curation and Display: The acquired NFTs will be stored securely in the community-run
vault. The vault will be designed to provide public access, allowing ApeCoin community
members and visitors to explore, appreciate, and engage with the collected NFTs. To
prioritize security and protect the community’s interest, we would propose any actions
involving the purchase and transfer of NFTs to leverage multi-signature features,
managed by the Committee.

Community Engagement and Collaboration: The establishment of the community vault will
facilitate collaborations and partnerships between ApeCoin and other web3 projects.
ApeCoin holders, artists, developers, and enthusiasts will have opportunities to
collaborate with and leverage the IP of the acquired NFTs to create interactive
experiences, virtual events, competitions, and exhibitions. The expected audiences of
these initiatives would be community members of ApeCoin and the NFT collections we
acquired from, as well as broader web3 user bases with a keen interest in these projects.
These engagements will promote the growth of ApeCoin’s ecosystem and encourage the
adoption of ApeCoin as a key web3 culture token.

Reporting and Accountability: The community-led committee will regularly report on the
acquisition process, NFT selection, and activities related to the community vault.
Updates will be provided through transparent channels, including the ApeCoin website,
and other relevant mediums. Financial transparency and accountability will also be
ensured by sharing detailed records of NFT purchases, associated costs, and any
collaborations or partnerships formed. Multi-signature wallet address(es) and on-chain
data will also be shared for transparency on the aforementioned items, where applicable.

Evaluation and Iteration: The community vault’s impact on promoting ApeCoin as a key
web3 culture token will be periodically evaluated. Feedback from the ApeCoin community,
the projects we acquire from, and the wider web3 ecosystem will be actively sought and
considered for future iterations and improvements surrounding but not limited to the
vault’s operations and curation strategy. This proposal addresses the first stages of
this community-run initiative, with the hope that there will be further NFT acquisitions
and future cross-community building to scale this vault’s positive impacts on the web3
space.

Potential Extension not part of the current budget: NFTs in the vault could be rentable
in the future to community members for a fee or some joint community-voted/run agreement.
In later phases, $APE could also be used to fund IP adoption of the rented NFTs. An
expansion on this idea could mean that NFTs in the vault could be rented to other Apecoin
holder to participate in other blockchain games. They may not be able to afford the NFTs
necessary to play in some of these games but by being a part of the Apecoin community
have an opportunity to use these assets as a participant.

Proposed First Acquisitions of NFTs

In order of priority and subject to approval, the first purchases proposed are:
Bored Ape Yacht Club: Floor Apes x10
Mutant Ape Yacht Club: Floor Mutants x10
Bored Ape Kennel Club: Floor Dogs x10
Mocaverse: Floor Mocas x10
Cool Cats: Floor Cats x10
World of Women: Floor NFTs x10
Pudgy Penguins: Floor Penguins x10
KODA’s: Floor KODA’s x10

Approximate calculations may also be found in this spreadsheet:

Conclusion:
The acquisition of NFTs for the community vault, funded by a budget of 750,000 APE,
will in our opinion contribute significantly to positioning ApeCoin as a significant
web3 culture token across the NFT ecosystem. By showcasing a diverse collection of NFTs
from other web3 ecosystems, this vault will foster cross-community collaboration, inspire
creativity, demonstrate support to diverse NFT communities, and attract new participants
to the ApeCoin ecosystem. This proposal represents an opportunity to leverage the power
of NFTs to amplify ApeCoin’s presence beyond its traditional space. This serves as an
experiment and also an important step to grow ApeCoin influence and empowerment in the
web3 ecosystem.

If this approach becomes successful we may propose a larger budget for more NFT
acquisitions in the future.


AIP Draft Template
PROPOSAL NAME:
Choose a title that best represents your AIP proposal.

PROPOSAL CATEGORY:
There are four different categories to choose from:

1. Choose Brand Decision for proposals that the DAO attaches its name to, including projects
and collaborations.
2. Choose Ecosystem Fund Allocation for proposals about how the Ecosystem Fund
[ApeCoin for the Web3 Economy] should be spent.
3. Choose Informational for proposals that suggest changes to the guidelines or that
provide information to the ApeCoin community.
4. Choose Process for proposals about making changes to any of the ApeCoin DAO
decision-making processes. This covers everything from submitting an AIP to the voting
process, to the tools and platforms used.

TEAM DESCRIPTION:
Provide a brief introduction of yourself and your team if you’re requesting funding.
If you’re seeking funding, each team member set to receive funds must separately sign a
grant agreement and undergo KYC verification before funds are released.

ABSTRACT:
A brief summary outlining your proposal. This section will be showcased on Snapshot for
the community’s consideration and should effectively communicate key details about your
proposal.

BENEFIT TO APECOIN ECOSYSTEM:
Explain how your proposal will benefit the ApeCoin ecosystem, and how it aligns with the
APE Community’s core mission and values. This section will be visible to voters on Snapshot.

KEY TERMS:
Definitions of any terms within the proposal that are unique to the proposal, new to the
APE Community, and/or industry-specific (optional).

PLATFORMS & TECHNOLOGIES:
A detailed breakdown of the platforms and technologies that will be used, if any.

STEPS TO IMPLEMENT & TIMELINE:
Outline the steps to implement your proposal, including the associated costs, key
performance indicators, personnel requirements, any expectations of the Ape Foundation,
and other resources needed for each step where applicable. This section also provides
relevant timing details, including the project’s start date and key milestones.

OVERALL COST:
Summarize the total budget associated with implementing the proposal. This section will
be visible to voters on Snapshot.


AIP Draft Resubmission Template
ORIGINAL PROPOSAL:
Provide a link to your original proposal submitted.

RESUBMISSION UPDATES:
Please describe any concerns regarding your original AIP and outline any improvements made.

AIP Resubmission authors have the option to forgo the standard 7-day AIP Idea phase and
may request to enter directly into the AIP Draft phase.


The AIP Process - AIP Step 1: I’ve Got an Idea
We should be proud of the big strides that the community and Foundation have made so far.
Together, we have begun building the foundations of a governance system to support the
ApeCoin community and its ambitions. Key to this system of governance are AIPs.

Laying the strong foundation that will enable ApeCoin to spread and allow our DAO to grow
more decentralized over time requires a rigorous and consistent set of procedures. These
procedures can make the AIP process feel onerous to some, but it’s important to remember
they are there to ensure that the DAO’s resources are being used responsibly in this
crucial early phase – and to remove the need for open-ended centralized oversight of
projects.

Examples of best practice and improving the process
We hope this provides helpful context as to why some AIPs may take longer than others to
go through the process, and why there’s even such a structured process in the first place.

If you’re currently drafting an AIP and looking for inspiration on how to best structure
and build out your ideas, we’d recommend checking out Final AIPs. These proposals have
all gone through to a community vote and so are good examples to follow. Take note of the
level of detail and thoughtfulness that meets the standards for the strong, durable base
we’re all working to build.

AIP Step 1: I’ve got an idea
The first step for an AIP is for an author to float their idea to the community. This
means introducing your idea, with as much or as little detail as you have, on the AIP
Ideas category on Discourse. The best part about this first step is that it allows ideas
to marinate within the community for a week, providing the opportunity to gather helpful
feedback on how your idea can best meet the needs of the DAO. The author also has the
option to request the discussion to be extended for another week.

The AIP Process - AIP Step 2: Time to Write
Once an idea has received community feedback, the author has 30 days to fill out an AIP
Draft Template. This is where the author can fully communicate the proposal’s
intentions, specifics, and implications. The more effort and research that’s poured into
this step, the quicker the AIP can be brought to a vote.

Once the template is drafted, the proposal is ready for moderator review. The time frame
of this review period depends on the level of detail included in the draft, and the
extent to which it is unclear how the AIP could best be actualized in a way that benefits
the DAO.

Moderator review depends on the proposal’s specifics, but usually includes assessing:
Necessary steps to implement
Vendors that may be needed
The role of the Foundation in implementation
Click here to read “AIP Step 3: Final Review”, post 3 of 4 in this series on the AIP process.

The AIP Process - AIP Step 3: Final Review
After moderators review your draft, they prepare an AIP analysis report. This ensures
that the nuts and bolts of the proposal are clearly explained (e.g. costs, steps to
implement, legal and ethical considerations, third-party review requirements, potential
conflicts of interests). The AIP Draft and the AIP analysis report are then shared with
the DAO’s Special Council (the “Board”) for a final review.

The Special Council may do one of three things:

Send the AIP on towards a DAO vote
Return the draft to the author for minor clarifications
Return the draft to the author for more substantive reconstruction to better demonstrate
how the proposal aligns with the DAO’s mission/values/wellbeing
Click here to read “AIP Step 4: Voting Time”, post 4 of 4 in this series on the AIP process.

The AIP Process - AIP Step 4: Voting Time
After the Special Council approves an AIP for a DAO vote, it’s time for the DAO to decide
whether the proposal will be adopted. Voting is done via Snapshot, where one ApeCoin is
\equal to one vote, cast either “in favor” or “against”. The voting period lasts for
6 days, from Thursday at 9PM ET until the following Wednesday at 9PM ET. Results are
viewable on Snapshot and are usually also posted on the ApeCoin Twitter.

If the DAO rejects a proposal, the author may initiate a resubmission process. If a
proposal passes, the Foundation begins work on implementation. The time to implement an
AIP depends on the specifics of an AIP. Any new AIPs that conflict with a passed AIP may
not be proposed until 3 months have passed since implementation.

Conclusion
Don’t forget that at the end of the day, the DAO’s governance is designed to be
adaptable. The Foundation has already heard a number of ideas to improve upon this
process, including those shared at our Twitter Spaces on June 1st. If any parts of this
process don’t sound right to you and there’s something you think we can improve upon,
please submit an AIP on process. If you’ve made it this far in the post, you’ll know
exactly how to do this and what your next steps should be!
